Consolidated text: Council Directive of 27 September 1977 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the field of vision of motor vehicle drivers (77/649/EEC)
Consolidated TEXT: 31977L0649 — EN — 06.12.1990
1977L0649 — EN — 06.12.1990 — 003.001
This document is meant purely as a documentation tool and the institutions do not assume any liability for its contents
►B
COUNCIL DIRECTIVE
of 27 September 1977
on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the field of vision of motor vehicle drivers
(77/649/EEC)
(OJ L 267, 19.10.1977, p.1)
Amended by:

Official Journal
 No
page
date
 M1
Commission Directive 81/643/EEC of 29 July 1981
 L 231
41
15.8.1981
►M2
Commission Directive 88/366/EEC of 17 May 1988
 L 181
40
12.7.1988
►M3
Commission Directive 90/630/EEC of 30 October 1990
 L 341
20
6.12.1990
Corrected by: ►C1
Corrigendum, OJ L 150, 6.6.1978, p. 6 (77/649)
▼B
COUNCIL DIRECTIVE
of 27 September 1977
on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the field of vision of motor vehicle drivers
(77/649/EEC)
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 100 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (
1
),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (
2
),
Whereas the technical requirements which motor vehicles must satisfy pursuant to national laws relate, inter alia, to the field of vision of the driver; Whereas these requirements differ from one Member State to another; whereas it is therefore necessary that all Member States adopt the same requirements, either in addition to or in place of their existing rules, in order, in particular, to allow the EEC type-approval procedure, which was the subject of Council Directive 70/156/EEC of 6 February 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the type-approval of motor vehicles and their trailers, to be introduced in respect of each type of vehicle (
3
);
Whereas it is desirable to draft the technical requirements so that they have the same aim as the work being carried out on the subject in the UN Economic Commission for Europe; Whereas those requirements apply to motor vehicles in category M1 (the international classification of motor vehicles is given in Annex I to Directive 70/156/EEC);
Whereas the approximation of national laws relating to motor vehicles entails reciprocal recognition by Member States of the checks carried out by each of them on the basis of the common requirements,
HAS ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: Article 1
For the purposes of this Directive, 'vehicle' means any motor vehicle in category M1 (defined in Annex I to Directive 70/156/EEC) intended for use on the road, having at least four wheels and a maximum design speed exceeding 25 km/h. Article 2
No Member State may refuse to grant EEC type-approval or national type-approval of a vehicle on grounds relating to the driver's field of vision if it satisfies the requirements set out in Annexes I, III and IV. Article 3
No Member State may refuse or prohibit the sale, registration, entry into service or use of any vehicle on grounds relating to the driver's field of vision if it satisfies the requirements set out in Annexes I, III and IV. Article 4
The Member State which has granted type-approval shall take the measures required to ensure that it is informed of any modification of a part or characteristic referred to in section 2.2 of Annex I. The competent authorities of that State shall determine whether it is necessary to carry out further tests on the modified vehicle type and to prepare a new report. If these tests show that the requirements of this Directive have not been complied with, the modification shall not be authorized. Article 5
Any amendments necessary to adapt the requirements of Annexes I, III, IV and V to technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13 of Directive 70/156/EEC. However, this procedure shall not apply to amendments introducing provisions relating to a field of vision other than 180° forward field of vision. Article 6
1. Member States shall bring into force the provisions necessary in order to comply with this Directive within 18 months of its notification and shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof. 2. Member States shall ensure that the texts of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive are communicated to the Commission. Article 7
This Directive is addressed to the Member States. List of Annexes
Annex I:
Scope, definitions, application for EEC type-approval, EEC type-approval, specifications, test procedure (1). (Annex II)
Annex III: Procedure for determining the 'H' point and the actual seat-back angle and for verifying the relative positions of the R and H points and the relationship between the design seat-back angle and the actual seat-back angle (1). Appendix: Figures 1 and 2. Annex IV: Method for determining the dimensional relationships between the vehicle's primary reference marks and the three-dimensional reference grid (1). Appendix: Figures 1 to 7
Annex V:
Annex to the EEC vehicle type-approval certificate with regard to the driver's field of vision. (1) The technical requirements of this Annex are similar to those of the relevant UN Economic Commission for Europe draft Regulation; in particular the breakdown into sections is the same. Where a section of the draft Regulation has no counterpart in the Annexes to this Directive, the number is given in brackets for the record. ANNEX I
SCOPE, DEFINITIONS, APPLICATION FOR EEC TYPE-APPROVAL, EEC TYPE-APPROVAL, SPECIFICATIONS, TEST PROCEDURE
1. SCOPE
1.1. This Directive applies to the 180° forward field of vision of the drivers of vehicles in category M1. 1.1.1. Its purpose is to ensure an adequate field of vision when the windscreen and other glazed surfaces are dry and clean. 1.2. The requirements of this Directive are so worded as to apply to category M1 vehicles in which the driver is on the left. In category M1 vehicles in which the driver is on the right these requirements shall be applied by inverting the criteria where appropriate. 2. DEFINITIONS
(2.1.) 
2.2. Vehicle type with regard to the field of vision
'Vehicle type with regard to the field of vision' means vehicles which do not differ in such essential respects as: 2.2.1. the external and internal forms and arrangements within the area specified in section 1 which may affect visibility; and
2.2.2. the shape and dimensions of the windscreen and its mounting. 2.3. Three-dimensional reference grid
'Three-dimensional reference grid' means a reference system which consists of a vertical longitudinal plane X-Z, a horizontal plane X-Y and a vertical transverse plane Y-Z (see Annex IV, Appendix, figure 5); the grid is used to determine the dimensional relationships between the position of design points on drawings and their position on the actual vehicle. The procedure for situating the vehicle relative to the grid is specified in Annex IV; all coordinates referred to ground zero shall be based on a vehicle in running order (as defined in section 2.6 of Annex I to Directive 70/156/EEC) plus one front-seat passenger, the mass of the passenger being 75 kg ± 1 %.
2.3.1. Vehicles fitted with suspension enabling their ground clearance to be adjusted shall be tested under the normal conditions of use specified by the vehicle manufacturer. 2.4. Primary reference marks
'Primary reference marks' means holes, surfaces, marks and identification signs on the vehicle body. The type of reference mark used and the position of each mark relative to the X, Y and Z coordinates of the three-dimensional reference grid and to a design ground plane shall be specified by the vehicle manufacturer.
Council Directive 77/649/EEC of 27 September 1977 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the field of vision of motor vehicle drivers
COUNCIL DIRECTIVE of 27 September 1977 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the field of vision of motor vehicle drivers (77/649/EEC) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 100 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (1), Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2), Whereas the technical requirements which motor vehicles must satisfy pursuant to national laws relate, inter alia, to the field of vision of the driver; Whereas these requirements differ from one Member State to another ; whereas it is therefore necessary that all Member States adopt the same requirements, either in addition to or in place of their existing rules, in order, in particular, to allow the EEC type-approval procedure, which was the subject of Council Directive 70/156/EEC of 6 February 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the type-approval of motor vehicles and their trailers, to be introduced in respect of each type of vehicle (3); Whereas it is desirable to draft the technical requirements so that they have the same aim as the work being carried out on the subject in the UN Economic Commission for Europe; Whereas those requirements apply to motor vehicles in category M1 (the international classification of motor vehicles is given in Annex I to Directive 70/156/EEC); Whereas the approximation of national laws relating to motor vehicles entails reciprocal recognition by Member States of the checks carried out by each of them on the basis of the common requirements, HAS ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: Article 1 For the purposes of this Directive, "vehicle" means any motor vehicle in category M1 (defined in Annex I to Directive 70/156/EEC) intended for use on the road, having at least four wheels and a maximum design speed exceeding 25 km/h. Article 2 No Member State may refuse to grant EEC type-approval or national type-approval of a vehicle on grounds relating to the driver's field of vision if it satisfies the requirements set out in Annexes I, III and IV.

(1)OJ No C 125, 8.6.1976, p. 49. (2)OJ No C 197, 23.8.1976, p. 10. (3)OJ No L 42, 23.2.1970, p. 1. Article 3 No Member State may refuse or prohibit the sale, registration, entry into service or use of any vehicle on grounds relating to the driver's field of vision if it satisfies the requirements set out in Annexes I, III and IV. Article 4 The Member State which has granted type-approval shall take the measures required to ensure that it is informed of any modification of a part or characteristic referred to in section 2.2 of Annex I. The competent authorities of that State shall determine whether it is necessary to carry out further tests on the modified vehicle type and to prepare a new report. If these tests show that the requirements of this Directive have not been complied with, the modification shall not be authorized. Article 5 Any amendments necessary to adapt the requirements of Annexes I, III, IV and V to technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13 of Directive 70/156/EEC. However, this procedure shall not apply to amendments introducing provisions relating to a field of vision other than 180º forward field of vision. Article 6 1. Member States shall bring into force the provisions necessary in order to comply with this Directive within 18 months of its notification and shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof. 2. Member States shall ensure that the texts of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive are communicated to the Commission. Article 7 This Directive is addressed to the Member States. Done at Brussels, 27 September 1977. For the Council The President A. HUMBLET List of Annexes >PIC FILE= "T9001015"> ANNEX I SCOPE, DEFINITIONS, APPLICATION FOR EEC TYPE-APPROVAL, EEC TYPE-APPROVAL, SPECIFICATIONS, TEST PROCEDURE 1. SCOPE 1.1. This Directive applies to the 180º forward field of vision of the drivers of vehicles in category M1. 1.1.1. Its purpose is to ensure an adequate field of vision when the windscreen and other glazed surfaces are dry and clean. 1.2. The requirements of this Directive are so worded as to apply to category M1 vehicles in which the driver is on the left. In category M1 vehicles in which the driver is on the right these requirements shall be applied by inverting the criteria where appropriate. 2. DEFINITIONS (2.1.) 2.2. Vehicle type with regard to the field of vision "Vehicle type with regard to the field of vision" means vehicles which do not differ in such essential respects as: 2.2.1. the external and internal forms and arrangements within the area specified in section 1 which may affect visibility ; and 2.2.2. the shape and dimensions of the windscreen and its mounting. 2.3. Three-dimensional reference grid "Three-dimensional reference grid" means a reference system which consists of a vertical longitudinal plane X-Z, a horizontal plane X-Y and a vertical transverse plane Y-Z (see Annex IV, Appendix, figure 5) ; the grid is used to determine the dimensional relationships between the position of design points on drawings and their position on the actual vehicle. The procedure for situating the vehicle relative to the grid is specified in Annex IV ; all coordinates referred to ground zero shall be based on a vehicle in running order (as defined in section 2.6 of Annex I to Directive 70/156/EEC) plus one front-seat passenger, the mass of the passenger being 75 kg ± 1 %. 2.3.1. Vehicles fitted with suspension enabling their ground clearance to be adjusted shall be tested under the normal conditions of use specified by the vehicle manufacturer. 2.4. Primary reference marks "Primary reference marks" means holes, surfaces, marks and identification signs on the vehicle body. The type of reference mark used and the position of each mark relative to the X, Y and Z coordinates of the three-dimensional reference grid and to a design ground plane shall be specified by the vehicle manufacturer. These marks may be the control points used for body-assembly purposes; 2.5. Seat-back angle (See Annex III, section 1.3) 2.6. Actual seat-back angle (See Annex III, section 1.4) 2.7. Design seat-back angle (See Annex III, section 1.5) 2.8. V points "V points" means points whose position in the passenger compartment is determined as a function of vertical longitudinal planes passing through the centres of the outermost designated seating positions on the front seat and in relation to the R point and the design angle of the seat-back, which points are used for verifying compliance with the field of vision requirements; 2.9. R point or seating reference point (See Annex III, section 1.2) 2.10. H point (See Annex III, section 1.1) 2.11. Windscreen datum points "Windscreen datum points" means points situated at the intersection with the windscreen of lines radiating forward from the V points to the outer surface of the windscreen. 2.12. Transparent area "Transparent area" means that area of a vehicle windscreen or other glazed surface whose light transmittance measured at right angles to the surface, is not less than 70 %. 2.13. P points "P points" means the points about which the driver's head rotates when he views objects on a horizontal plane at eye level. 2.14. E points "E points" means points representing the centres of the driver's eyes and used to assess the extent to which A pillars obscure the field of vision. 2.15.
The type of reference mark used and the position of each mark relative to the X, Y and Z coordinates of the three-dimensional reference grid and to a design ground plane shall be specified by the vehicle manufacturer. These marks may be the control points used for body-assembly purposes; 2.5. Seat-back angle
(See Annex III, section 1.3)
2.6. Actual seat-back angle
(See Annex III, section 1.4)
2.7. Design seat-back angle
(See Annex III, section 1.5)
2.8. V points
'V points' means points whose position in the passenger compartment is determined as a function of vertical longitudinal planes passing through the centres of the outermost designated seating positions on the front seat and in relation to the R point and the design angle of the seat-back, which points are used for verifying compliance with the field of vision requirements; 2.9. R point or seating reference point
(See Annex III, section 1.2)
2.10. H point
(See Annex III, section 1.1)
2.11 Windscreen datum points
'Windscreen datum points' means points situated at the intersection with the windscreen of lines radiating forward from the V points to the outer surface of the windscreen. 2.12. Transparent area
'Transparent area' means that area of a vehicle windscreen or other glazed surface whose light transmittance measured at right angles to the surface, is not less than 70 %. 2.13. P points
'P points' means the points about which the driver's head rotates when he views objects on a horizontal plane at eye level. 2.14. E points
'E points' means points representing the centres of the driver's eyes and used to assess the extent to which A pillars obscure the field of vision. 2.15. A pillar
'A pillar' means any roof support forward of the vertical transverse plane located 68 mm in front of the V points and includes non-transparent items, such as windscreen mouldings and door frames, attached or contiguous to such a support. 2.16. Horizontal seat-adjustment range
'Horizontal seat-adjustment range' means the range of normal driving positions designated by the vehicle manufacturer for the adjustment of the driver's seat in the direction of the X axis (see 2.3). 2.17. Extended seat adjustment range
'Extended seat adjustment range' means the range designated by the vehicle manufacturer for the adjustment of the seat in the direction of the X axis (see 2.3) beyond the range of normal driving positions specified in 2.16 and used for converting seats into beds or facilitating entry into the vehicle. (2.18.) 
3. APPLICATION FOR EEC TYPE-APPROVAL
3.1. The application for EEC type-approval of a vehicle type with regard to the driver's field of vision shall be submitted by the vehicle manufacturer or by his authorized representative. 3.2. It shall be accompanied by the following documents in triplicate, and by the following particulars; 3.2.1. a description of the vehicle with regard to the items mentioned in 2.2, together with dimensional drawings and either a photograph or an exploded view of the passenger compartment. The numbers and/or symbols identifying the vehicle type shall be specified; and
3.2.2. particulars of the primary reference marks in sufficient detail to enable them to be readily identified and the position of each in relation to the others and to the R point to be verified. 3.3. A vehicle representative of the vehicle type to be approved shall be submitted to the technical service conducting the approval tests. 4. EEC TYPE-APPROVAL
(4.1.)
(4.2.)
4.3.
A certificate conforming to the model shown in Annex V shall be attached to the EEC type-approval certificate. (4.4.)
— (4.4.1) — (4.4.2)
(4.5.)
(4.6.)
(4.7.)
(4.8.)
5. SPECIFICATIONS
5.1. Driver's field of vision
5.1.1. The transparent area of the windscreen must include at least the windscreen datum points; these are: 5.1.1.1.
a horizontal datum point forward of V1 and 17° to the left (see Annex IV, Appendix, figure 1); 5.1.1.2. an upper vertical datum point forward of V1 and 7° above the horizontal. However, this angle shall be reduced to 5° until 30 September 1981. 5.1.1.3. a lower vertical datum point forward of V2 and 5° below the horizontal; 5.1.1.4. to verify compliance with the forward-vision requirement on the opposite half of the windscreen, three additional datum points, symmetrical to the points defined in 5.1.1.1 to 5.1.1.3 in relation to the median longitudinal plane of the vehicle, are obtained. ▼M2
5.1.2.The angle of bosdtruction for each 'A' pillar, as described in point 5.1.2.1, shall not exceed 6° (cf. Annex IV, Appendix, Figure 3). The angle of obstruction of the 'A' pillar on the passenger side, as described in point 5.1.2.1.2, need not be determined if the two pillars are located symmetrically in relation to the median longitudinal vertical plane of the vehicle. 5.1.2.1. The angle of obstruction of each 'A' pillar shall be measured by superimposing in a plane the following two horizontal sections: Section 1 : Starting from the Pm point situated at the location defined in point 5.3.1.1, draw a plane forming an angle of 2° upwards in relation to the horizontal plane passing forward through Pm. Determine the horizontal section of the 'A' pillar starting from the foremost point of the intersection of the 'A' pillar and the inclined plane (cf. Annex IV, Appendix, Figure 2). Section 2 : Repeat the same procedure, taking a plane declining at an angle of 5° downwards in relation to the horizontal plane passing forward through Pm (cf. Annex IV, Appendix, Figure 2). 5.1.2.1.1. The angle of obstruction of the 'A' pillar on the driver's side is the angle formed on the plane view by a parallel, starting from E2, to the tangent joining E1 with the outer edge of Section S2 and the tangent joining E2 with the inner edge of Section S1 (cf. Annex IV, Appendix, Figure 3). 5.1.2.1.2. The angle of obstruction of the 'A' pillar on the passenger side is the angle formed on the plane view by the tangent joining E3 to the inner edge of Section S1 and a parallel, starting from E3, to the tangent joining E4 to the outer edge of Section S2 (cf. Annex IV, Appendix, Figure 3)
▼B
5.1.2.2. No vehicle shall have more than two A pillars. ▼M2
5.1.3.Other than the obstructions created by the 'A' pillars, the fixed or movable vent or side window division bars, outside radio aerials, rear-view mirrors and windscreen wipers, there should be no obstruction in the driver's 180° forward direct field of vision below a horizontal plane passing through V1, and above three planes through V2, one being perpendicular to the plane X - Z and declining forward 4° below the horizontal, and the other two being perpendicular to the plane Y - Z and declining 4° below the horizontal (see Annex IV, Figure 4). The following are not considered to be obstructions to the field of vision: — embedded or printed 'radio aerial' conductors no wider than the following: — 
— embedded conductors: 0,5 millimetres,
— printed conductors: 1,0 millimetres. — These 'radio aerial' conductors shall not cross zone A, as defined in Directive 78/318/EEC, relating to the wiper and washer systems of motor vehicles (
4
). However, three 'radio aerial' conductors may cross zone A if their width does not exceed 0,5 millimetres
— within zone A 'defrosting/demisting' conductors normally in 'zigzag' or sinusoidal form having the following dimensions: — 
— maximum visible width: 0,030 millimetres,
— maximum conductor density: — 
— if the conductors are vertical: 8/cm,
— if the conductors are horizontal: 5/cm. ▼B
5.2. Position of the V points
5.2.1. The positions of the V points in relation to the R point, as indicated by XYZ coordinates from the three-dimensional reference grid, are as shown in Tables I and IV. 5.2.1.1. Table I indicates the basic coordinates for a design seat-back angle of 25°. The positive direction for the coordinates is indicated in Annex IV, Appendix, figure 1. TABLE I
V-point
X
Y
Z
V1
68 mm
− 5 mm
665 mm
V2
68 mm
− 5 mm
589 mm
5.3. Positions of the P points
5.3.1.
2.15. A pillar "A pillar" means any roof support forward of the vertical transverse plane located 68 mm in front of the V points and includes non-transparent items, such as windscreen mouldings and door frames, attached or contiguous to such a support. 2.16. Horizontal seat-adjustment range "Horizontal seat-adjustment range" means the range of normal driving positions designated by the vehicle manufacturer for the adjustment of the driver's seat in the direction of the X axis (see 2.3). 2.17. Extended seat adjustment range "Extended seat adjustment range" means the range designated by the vehicle manufacturer for the adjustment of the seat in the direction of the X axis (see 2.3) beyond the range of normal driving positions specified in 2.16 and used for converting seats into beds or facilitating entry into the vehicle. (2.18.) 3. APPLICATION FOR EEC TYPE-APPROVAL 3.1. The application for EEC type-approval of a vehicle type with regard to the driver's field of vision shall be submitted by the vehicle manufacturer or by his authorized representative. 3.2. It shall be accompanied by the following documents in triplicate, and by the following particulars; 3.2.1. a description of the vehicle with regard to the items mentioned in 2.2, together with dimensional drawings and either a photograph or an exploded view of the passenger compartment. The numbers and/or symbols identifying the vehicle type shall be specified ; and 3.2.2. particulars of the primary reference marks in sufficient detail to enable them to be readily identified and the position of each in relation to the others and to the R point to be verified. 3.3. A vehicle representative of the vehicle type to be approved shall be submitted to the technical service conducting the approval tests. 4. EEC TYPE-APPROVAL (4.1.) (4.2.) 4.3. A certificate conforming to the model shown in Annex V shall be attached to the EEC type-approval certificate. (4.4.) - (4.4.1) - (4.4.2) (4.5.) (4.6.) (4.7.) (4.8.) 5. SPECIFICATIONS 5.1. Driver's field of vision 5.1.1. The transparent area of the windscreen must include at least the windscreen datum points ; these are: 5.1.1.1. a horizontal datum point forward of V1 and 17º to the left (see Annex IV, Appendix, figure 1); 5.1.1.2. an upper vertical datum point forward of V1 and 7º above the horizontal. However, this angle shall be reduced to 5º until 30 September 1981. 5.1.1.3. a lower vertical datum point forward of V2 and 5º below the horizontal; 5.1.1.4. to verify compliance with the forward-vision requirement on the opposite half of the windscreen, three additional datum points, symmetrical to the points defined in 5.1.1.1 to 5.1.1.3 in relation to the median longitudinal plane of the vehicle, are obtained. 5.1.2. The angle of binocular obstruction of each A pillar shall not exceed the following values at the level of the pivotal points P1 and P2 of the head (see Annex IV, Appendix, figure 2): until 30 September 1981 : 7º from 1 October 1981 : 6º 5.1.2.1. The angle of binocular obstruction is measured in a horizontal plane between tangents connecting: 5.1.2.1.1. E1 to the rearward side and E2 to the forward side of the left A pillar, and 5.1.2.1.2. E3 to the forward side and E4 to the rearward side of the right A pillar. 5.1.2.2. No vehicle shall have more than two A pillars. 5.1.3. There shall be no obstructions, other than those created by A pillars and/or vent window division bars, rear-view mirrors and windscreen wipers, in the driver's 180º forward direct field of vision below a horizontal plane through V1 and above three planes through V2, one being perpendicular to the plane X-Z and declining forward 4º below the horizontal and the other two being perpendicular to the plane Y-Z and declining 4º below the horizontal (see Annex IV, Appendix, figure 3). However, rear-view mirrors may only be mounted within the field of vision defined above if, when they are located in a different position, the requirements of Council Directive 71/127/EEC of 1 March 1971 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the rear-view mirrors of motor vehicles are no longer met (1). 5.1.3.1. An obstruction created by the steering-wheel rim and the instrument panel inside the steering wheel will be tolerated if a plane through V2, perpendicular to the plane X-Z and tangential to the highest part of the steering-wheel rim, is declined at least 1º below the horizontal. 5.2. Position of the V points 5.2.1. The positions of the V points in relation to the R point, as indicated by XYZ coordinates from the three-dimensional reference grid, are as shown in Tables I and IV. 5.2.1.1. Table I indicates the basic coordinates for a design seat-back angle of 25º. The positive direction for the coordinates is indicated in Annex IV, Appendix, figure 1. >PIC FILE= "T0011150"> 5.3. Positions of the P points 5.3.1. The positions of the P points in relation to the R point, as indicated by the XYZ coordinates from the three-dimensional reference grid, are as shown by Tables II, III and IV. 5.3.1.1. Table II indicates the basic coordinates for a design seat-back angle of 25º. The positive direction for the coordinates is indicated in Annex IV, Appendix, figure 1. >PIC FILE= "T0011151"> 5.3.1.2. Table III indicates the further corrections to be made to the X coordinates of P1 and P2 when the horizontal seat-adjustment range as defined in 2.16 exceeds 108 mm. The positive direction for the coordinates is indicated in Annex IV, Appendix, figure 1. (1)OJ No L 68, 22.3.1971, p. 1. >PIC FILE= "T0011152"> 5.4. Correction for design seat-back angles other than 25º Table IV indicates the further corrections to be made to the X and Z coordinates of each P point and each V point when the design seat-back angle is not 25º. The positive direction for the coordinates is indicated in Annex IV, Appendix, figure 1. >PIC FILE= "T0011153"> 5.5. Positions of the E points 5.5.1. E1 and E2 are each 104 mm from P1. E2 is 65 mm from E1 (see Annex IV, Appendix, figure 4). 5.5.2. The line joining E1 and E2 is rotated about P1 until it is normal to the vertical median longitudinal plane of the vehicle, provided that: 5.5.2.1. In such position a tangent from E1 to the rearward edge of the left A pillar forms an angle of 120º or less with the line E1 - E2; 5.5.2.2. Where the angle so included is more than 120º, rotation of the line E1 - E2 about P1 shall be adjusted until the resultant included angle equals 120º (in the latter case see Annex IV, Appendix, figure 2). 5.5.3. E3 and E4 are each 104 mm from P2. E3 is 65 mm from E4. (See Annex IV, Appendix, figure 4). 5.5.4. The line E3 - E4 is rotated about P2 until it forms an angle of 120º with the tangent from E4 to the rearward edge of the right A pillar (see Annex IV, Appendix, figure 2). 6. TEST PROCEDURE 6.1. Driver's field of vision 6.1.1. The dimensional relationships between the vehicle's primary reference marks and the three-dimensional reference grid shall be determined by the procedure prescribed in Annex IV. 6.1.2. The position of the points V1 and V2 are determined in relation to the R point as indicated by XYZ coordinates from the three-dimensional reference grid and are shown in Table I under 5.2.1.1 and Table IV under 5.4. The windscreen datum points shall then be found from the corrected V points as prescribed in 5.1.1. 6.1.3. The relationship between the P points, the R point, and the centre-line of the driver's seating position, as indicated by XYZ coordinates from the three-dimensional reference grid, shall be determined from Tables II and III in 5.3. The correction for design seat-back angles other than 25º is shown in Table IV under 5.4. 6.1.4. The angle of binocular obstruction (see 5.1.2) shall be measured in the horizontal plane as indicated in Annex IV, Appendix, figure 2. The relationship between P1 and P2, which are connected to E1 and E2 and E3 and E4 respectively, is shown in Annex IV, Appendix, figure 4. 6.1.4.1.
The relationship between P1 and P2, which are connected to E1 and E2 and E3 and E4 respectively, is shown in Annex IV, Appendix, figure 4. 6.1.4.1. The line E1 - E2 shall be set as described in 5.5.2. The angle of binocular obstruction is then measured between the tangent connecting E1 to the outer edge of the left A pillar and the tangent connecting E2 to the inner edge of the left A pillar. 6.1.4.2. The line E3 - E4 shall be set as described in 5.5.4. The angle of binocular obstruction is then measured between the tangent connecting E4 to the outer edge of the right A pillar and the tangent connecting E3 to the inner edge of the right A pillar. (7.) (8.) (9.) (10.) (ANNEX II) ANNEX III PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINING THE H POINT AND THE ACTUAL SEAT-BACK ANGLE AND FOR VERIFYING THE RELATIVE POSITIONS OF THE R AND H POINTS AND THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE DESIGN SEAT-BACK ANGLE AND THE ACTUAL SEAT-BACK ANGLE 1. DEFINITIONS 1.1. H point The "H point", which indicates the position of a seated occupant in the passenger compartment, is the intersection, in a longitudinal vertical plane, of the theoretical axis of rotation between the thighs and torso of a human body represented by the manikin described in section 3. 1.2. R point or seating reference point The "R point" or "seating reference point" is the reference point specified by the vehicle manufacturer which 1.2.1. has coordinates determined in relation to the vehicle structure; 1.2.2. corresponds to the theoretical position of the point of torso/thighs rotation (H point) for the lowest and most rearward normal driving position or position of use given by the vehicle manufacturer for each seating position specified by him. 1.3. Seat-back angle "Seat-back angle" means the inclination of the seat-back in relation to the vertical. 1.4. Actual seat-back angle "Actual seat-back angle" means the angle formed by the vertical through the H point with the torso reference line of the human body represented by the manikin described in section 3. 1.5. Design seat-back angle "Design seat-back angle" means the angle prescribed by the vehicle manufacturer which 1.5.1. determines the seat-back angle for the lowest and most rearward normal driving position or position of use given by the vehicle manufacturer for each seating position specified by him; 1.5.2. is formed at the R point by the vertical and the torso reference line ; and 1.5.3. corresponds theoretically to the actual seat-back angle. 2. DETERMINATION OF H POINTS AND ACTUAL SEAT-BACK ANGLES 2.1. An H point and an actual seat-back angle shall be determined for each seating position specified by the vehicle manufacturer. If the seating positions in the same row can be regarded as similar (bench seat, identical seats, etc.), only one H point and one actual seat-back angle shall be determined for each row of seats, the manikin described in section 3 being seated in a place regarded as representative for the row. This place shall be: 2.1.1. in the case of the front row, the driver's seat; 2.1.2. in the case of the rear row or rows, an outer seat; 2.2. When an H point and an actual seat-back angle are being determined, the seat considered shall be placed in the lowest and most rearward normal driving position or position of use given for it by the vehicle manufacturer. The seat-back shall, if its inclination is adjustable, be locked as specified by the manufacturer, or in the absence of any such specification, in a position corresponding to an actual seat-back angle of as near as possible to 25º. 3. DESCRIPTION OF THE MANIKIN 3.1. A three-dimensional manikin of a mass and contour corresponding to those of an adult male of average height shall be used. Such a manikin is depicted in figures 1 and 2 of the Appendix to this Annex. 3.2. The manikin shall comprise: 3.2.1. two components, one simulating the back and the other the seat of the body, pivoting on an axis representing the axis of rotation between the torso and the thigh. The intersection of this axis with the vertical medium longitudinal plane of the seating position determines the H point; 3.2.2. two components simulating the legs and pivotally attached to the component simulating the seat ; and 3.2.3. two components simulating the feet and connected to the legs by pivotal joints simulating ankles. 3.2.4. In addition, the component simulating the seat of the body shall be provided with a level enabling its transverse orientation to be verified. 3.3. Body-segment weights shall be attached at appropriate points corresponding to the relevant centres of gravity, so as to bring the total mass of the manikin up to 75 kg ± 1 %. Details of the mass of the various weights are given in the table in figure 2 of the Appendix to this Annex. 3.4. The torso reference line of the manikin is represented by a straight line passing through the joint between the thigh and the torso and the theoretical joint between the neck and the thorax (see the Appendix to this Annex, figure 1). 4. SETTING UP THE MANIKIN The three-dimensional manikin shall be set up in the following manner: 4.1. the vehicle shall be placed on a horizontal plane and the seats adjusted as prescribed in 2.2; 4.2. the seat to be tested shall be covered with a piece of cloth to facilitate the correct setting-up of the manikin; 4.3. the manikin shall be placed on the seat concerned, its pivotal axis being perpendicular to the median longitudinal plane of the vehicle; 4.4. the feet of the manikin shall be placed as follows; 4.4.1. in the front seats, in such a way that the level verifying the transverse orientation of the seat of the manikin is brought to the horizontal; 4.4.2. in the rear seats, as far as possible in such a way as to be in contact with the front seats. If the feet then rest on parts of the floor which are at different levels, the foot which first comes into contact with the front seat shall serve as a reference point and the other foot shall be so arranged that the level enabling the transverse orientation of the seat of the manikin to be verified is brought to the horizontal; 4.4.3. if the H point is being determined at a centre seat, the feet shall be placed one on each side of the tunnel; 4.5. the weights shall be placed on the legs, the level verifying the transverse orientation of the seat of the manikin shall be brought to the horizontal, and the thigh weights shall be placed on the component representing the seat of the manikin; 4.6. the manikin shall be moved away from the seat-back by means of the knee-pivot bar and the back of the manikin shall be pivoted forwards. The manikin shall be repositioned on the seat of the vehicle by being slid backwards on its seat until resistance is encountered, the back of the manikin then being replaced against the seat-back; 4.7. a horizontal load of 10 ± 1 daN shall be applied to the manikin twice. The direction and point of application of the load are shown by a black arrow in figure 2 of the Appendix; 4.8. the seat weights shall be installed on the right and left sides, and the torso weights shall then be placed in position. The transverse level of the manikin shall be kept horizontal; 4.9. the transverse level of the manikin being kept horizontal, the back of the manikin shall be pivoted forwards until the torso weights are above the H point, so as to eliminate any friction with the seat-back; 4.10. the back of the manikin shall be gently moved rearwards so as to complete the setting-up operation. The transverse level of the manikin shall be horizontal. If it is not, the procedure described above shall be repeated. 5. RESULTS 5.1. When the manikin has been set up as described in section 4, the H point and the actual seat-back angle of the vehicle seat considered are constituted by the H point and the angle of inclination of the manikin's torso reference line.
TABLE I
V-point
X
Y
Z
V1
68 mm
− 5 mm
665 mm
V2
68 mm
− 5 mm
589 mm
5.3. Positions of the P points
5.3.1.

The positions of the P points in relation to the R point, as indicated by the XYZ coordinates from the three-dimensional reference grid, are as shown by Tables II, III and IV. ▼M2
5.3.1.1.Table II sets out the base coordinates for a design seat-back angle of 25°. The positive direction of the coordinates is set out in Annex IV, Appendix, Figure 1. The Pm point is the point of intersection between the straight line P1, P2 and the longitudinal vertical plane passing through the R point. TABLE II
Point P
X
Y
Z
P1
35 mm
− 20 mm
627 mm
P2
63 mm
47 mm
627 mm
Pm
43,36 mm
0 mm
627 mm
▼B
5.3.1.2. Table III indicates the further corrections to be made to the X coordinates of P1 and P2 when the horizontal seat-adjustment range as defined in 2.16 exceeds 108 mm. The positive direction for the coordinates is indicated in Annex IV, Appendix, figure 1. TABLE III
Horizontal seat-adjustment range
Δ X
108 to 120 mm
− 13 mm
121 to 132 mm
− 22 mm
133 to 145 mm
− 32 mm
146 to 158 mm
− 42 mm
more than 158 mm
− 48 mm
5.4. Correction for design seat-back angles other than 25°
Table IV indicates the further corrections to be made to the X and Z coordinates of each P point and each V point when the design seat-back angle is not 25°. The positive direction for the coordinates is indicated in Annex IV, Appendix, figure 1. TABLE IV
Seat-back angle
(in °)
Horizontal coordinates
Δ X
Vertical coordinates
Δ Z
5
− 186 mm
28 mm
6
− 177 mm
27 mm
7
− 167 mm
27 mm
8
− 157 mm
27 mm
9
− 147 mm
26 mm
10
− 137 mm
25 mm
11
− 128 mm
24 mm
12
− 118 mm
23 mm
13
− 109 mm
22 mm
14
− 99 mm
21 mm
15
− 90 mm
20 mm
16
− 81 mm
18 mm
17
− 72 mm
17 mm
18
− 62 mm
15 mm
19
− 53 mm
13 mm
20
− 44 mm
11 mm
21
− 35 mm
9 mm
22
− 26 mm
7 mm
23
− 18 mm
5 mm
24
− 9 mm
3 mm
25
0 mm
0 mm
26
9 mm
− 3 mm
27
17 mm
− 5 mm
28
26 mm
− 8 mm
29
34 mm
− 11 mm
30
43 mm
− 14 mm
31
51 mm
− 18 mm
32
59 mm
− 21 mm
33
67 mm
− 24 mm
34
76 mm
− 28 mm
35
84 mm
− 32 mm
36
92 mm
− 35 mm
37
100 mm
− 39 mm
38
108 mm
− 43 mm
39
115 mm
− 48 mm
40
123 mm
− 52 mm
5.5. Positions of the E points
5.5.1. E1 and E2 are each 104 mm from P1. E2 is 65 mm from E1 (see Annex IV, Appendix, figure 4). 5.5.2. ►M2
 The straight line joining E1 and E2 is rotated about P1 until the tangent joining E1 to the outer edge of Section 2 of the A-pillar on the driver's side is normal to the straight line E1 - E2 (cf. Annex IV, Appendix, Figure 3). ◄ 
▼M2 —————
▼B
5.5.3.
E3 and E4 are each 104 mm from P2. E3 is 65 mm from E4. (See Annex IV, Appendix, figure 4). ▼M2
5.5.4.The straight line E3 - E4 is rotated about P2 until the tangent joining E4 to the outer edge of Section 2 of the A-pillar on the passenger's side is normal to the straight line E3 - E4 (cf. Annex IV, Appendix, Figure 3)
▼B
6. TEST PROCEDURE
6.1. Driver's field of vision
6.1.1. The dimensional relationships between the vehicle's primary reference marks and the three-dimensional reference grid shall be determined by the procedure prescribed in Annex IV. 6.1.2. The position of the points V1 and V2 are determined in relation to the R point as indicated by XYZ coordinates from the three-dimensional reference grid and are shown in Table I under 5.2.1.1 and Table IV under 5.4. The windscreen datum points shall then be found from the corrected V points as prescribed in 5.1.1.
6.1.3. The relationship between the P points, the R point, and the centre-line of the driver's seating position, as indicated by XYZ coordinates from the three-dimensional reference grid, shall be determined from Tables II and III in 5.3. The correction for design seat-back angles other than 25° is shown in Table IV under 5.4. ▼M2
6.1.4.The angle of obstruction (see 5.1.2) shall be measured in the inclined planes as indicated in Annex IV, Appendix, Figure 2. The relationship between P1 and P2, which are connected to E1 and E2, and E3 and E4, respectively, is shown in Annex IV, Appendix, Figure 5. 6.1.4.1. Straight line E1 - E2 shall be set as described in 5.5.2. The angle of obstruction of the A-pillar on the driver's side shall then be measured as specified in point 5.1.2.1.1.
6.1.4.2. Straight line E3 - E4 shall be set as described in 5.5.4. The angle of obstruction of the A-pillar on the passenger side shall then be measured as specified in point 5.1.2.1.2. ▼M2
6.1.5.The manufacturer may measure the angle of obstruction either on the vehicle or in the drawings. In case of doubt the technical services may require the tests to be carried out on the vehicle. ▼B
(7.) 
(8.) 
(9.) 
(10.) 
(ANNEX II)
▼M3
ANNEX III
PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINING THE 'H' POINT AND THE ACTUAL TORSO ANGLE FOR SEATING POSITIONS IN MOTOR VEHICLES
1. PURPOSE
The procedure described in this Annex is used to establish the 'H' point location and the actual torso angle for one or several seating positions in a motor vehicle and to verify the relationship of measured data to design specifications given by the vehicle manufacturer (
5
)
2. DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Annex: 2.1. 'Reference data' means one or several of the following characteristics of a seating position: 2.1.1. the 'H' point and the 'R' point and their relationship,
2.1.2. the actual torso angle and the design torso angle and their relationship. 2.2. 'Three-dimensional "H" point machine' (3 DH machine) means the device used for the determination of 'H' points and actual torso angles. This device is described in Appendix 1 to this Annex; 2.3. '"H" point' means the pivot centre of the torso and thigh of the 3 DH machine installed in the vehicle seat in accordance with paragraph 4 below. The 'H' point is located in the centre of the centreline of the device which is between the 'H' point sight buttons on either side of the 3 DH machine. The 'H' point corresponds theoretically to the 'R' point (for tolerances see item 3.2.2 below). Once determined in accordance with the procedure described in paragraph 4, the 'H' point is considered fixed in relation to the seat-cushion structure and to move with it when the seat is adjusted; 2.4. '"R" point' or 'seating reference point' means a design point defined by the vehicle manufacturer for each seating position and established with respect to the three-dimensional reference system; 2.5. 'Torso-line' means the centreline of the probe of the 3 DH machine with the probe in the fully rearward position; 2.6. 'Actual torso angle' means the angle measured between a vertical line through the 'H' point and the torso line using the back angle quadrant on the 3 DH machine. The actual torso angle corresponds theoretically to the design torso angle (for tolerances see item 3.2.2 below); 2.7. 'Design torso angle' means the angle measured between a vertical line through the 'R' point and the torso line in a position which corresponds to the design position of the seat-back established by the vehicle manufacturer; 2.8. 'Centreplane of occupant' (C/LO) means the median plane of the 3 DH machine positioned in each designated seating position; it is represented by the co-ordinate of the 'H' point on the 'Y' axis. For individual seats, the centreplane of the seat coincides with the centreplane of the occupant. For other seats, the centreplane of the occupant is specified by the manufacturer; 2.9. 'Three-dimensional reference system' means a system as described in Appendix 2 to this Annex; 2.10. 'Fiducial marks' are physical points (holes, surfaces, marks or indentations) on the vehicle body as defined by the manufacturer; 2.11. 'Vehicle measuring attitude' means the position of the vehicle as defined by the coordinates of fiducial marks in the three-dimensional reference system.
'Vehicle measuring attitude' means the position of the vehicle as defined by the coordinates of fiducial marks in the three-dimensional reference system. 3. REQUIREMENTS
3.1. Data presentation
For each seating position where reference data are required in order to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of the present Directive, all or an appropriate selection of the following data shall be presented in the form indicated in Appendix 3 to this Annex: 3.1.1. the coordinates of the 'R' point relative to the three-dimensional reference system; 3.1.2. the design torso angle; 3.1.3. all indications necessary to adjust the seat (if it is adjustable) to the measuring position set out in item 4.3 below. 3.2. Relationship between measured data and design specifications
3.2.1. The coordinates of the 'H' point and the value of the actual torso angle obtained by the procedure set out in item 4 below shall be compared, respectively, with the coordinates of the 'R' point and the value of the design torso angle indicated by the vehicle manufacturer. 3.2.2. The relative positions of the 'R' point and the 'H' point and the relationship between the design torso angle and the actual torso angle shall be considered satisfactory for the seating position in question if the 'H' point, as defined by its coordinates, lies within a square of 50 mm side length with horizontal and vertical sides whose diagonals intersect at the 'R' point, and if the actual torso angle is within 5° of the design torso angle. 3.2.3. If these conditions are met, the 'R' point and the design torso angle shall be used to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this Directive. 3.2.4. If the 'H' point or the actual torso angle does not satisfy the requirements of item 3.2.2 above, the 'H' point and the actual torso angle shall be determined twice more (three times in all). If the results of two of these three operations satisfy the requirements, the conditions of item 3.2.3 above shall apply. 3.2.5. If the results of at least two of the three operations described in item 3.2.4 above do not satisfy the requirements of item 3.2.2 above, or if the verification cannot take place because the vehicle manufacturer has failed to supply information regarding the position of the 'R' point or regarding the design torso angle, the centroid of the three measured points or the average of the three measured angles shall be used and be regarded as applicable in all cases where the 'R' point or the design torso angle is referred to in this Directive. 4. PROCEDURE FOR 'H' POINT AND ACTUAL TORSO ANGLE DETERMINATION
4.1. The vehicle shall be preconditioned at the manufacturer's discretion, at a temperature of 20 ± 10 °C to ensure that the seat material reaches room temperature. If the seat to be checked has never been sat upon, a 70 to 80 kg person or device shall sit on the seat twice for one minute to flex the cushion and back. At the manufacturer's request, all seat assemblies shall remain unloaded for a minimum period of 30 minutes prior to installation of the 3 DH machine. 4.2. The vehicle shall be at the measuring attitude defined in item 2.11 above. 4.3. The seat, if it is adjustable, shall be adjusted first to the rearmost normal driving or riding position, as indicated by the vehicle manufacturer, taking into consideration only the longitudinal adjustment of the seat, excluding seat travel used for purposes other than normal driving or riding positions. Where other modes of seat adjustment exist (vertical, angular, seat-back, etc.) these will be then adjusted to the position specified by the vehicle manufacturer. For suspension seats, the vertical position shall be rigidly fixed corresponding to a normal driving position as specified by the manufacturer. 4.4. The area of the seating position contacted by the 3 DH machine shall be covered by a muslin cotton, of sufficient size and appropriate texture, described as a plain cotton fabric having 18,9 threads per cm2 and weighing 0,228 kg/m2 or knitted or non-woven fabric having equivalent characteristics. If a test is run on a seat outside the vehicle, the floor on which the seat is placed shall have the same essential characteristics (
6
) as the floor of the vehicle in which the seat is intended to be used. 4.5. Place the seat and back assembly of the 3 DH machine so that the centreplane of the occupant (C/LO) coincides with the centreplane of the 3 DH machine. At the manufacturer's request, the 3 DH machine may be moved inboard with respect to the C/LO if the 3 DH machine is located so far outboard that the seat edge will not permit levelling of the 3 DH machine. 4.6. Attach the foot and lower leg assemblies to the seat pan assembly, either individually or by using the T-bar and lower leg assembly. A line through the 'H' point sight buttons shall be parallel to the ground and perpendicular to the longitudinal centreplane of the seat. 4.7. Adjust the feet and leg position of the 3 DH machine as follows:4.7.1. Designated seating position: driver and outside front passenger
4.7.1.1. Both feet and leg assemblies shall be moved forward in such a way that the feet take up natural positions on the floor, between the operating pedals if necessary. Where possible the left foot shall be located approximately the same distance to the left of the centreplane of the 3 DH machine as the right foot is to the right. The spirit level verifying the transverse orientation of the 3 DH machine is brought to the horizontal by readjustment of the seat pan if necessary, or by adjusting the leg and foot assemblies towards the rear. The line passing through the 'H' point sight buttons shall be maintained perpendicular to the longitudinal centreplane of the seat. 4.7.1.2. If the left leg cannot be kept parallel to the right leg and the left foot cannot be supported by the structure, move the left foot until it is supported. The alignment of the sight buttons shall be maintained. 4.7.2. Designated seating position: outboard rear
For rear seats or auxiliary seats, the legs are located as specified by the manufacturer. If the feet then rest on parts of the floor which are at different levels, the foot which first comes into contact with the front seat shall serve as a reference and the other foot shall be so arranged that the spirit level giving the transverse orientation of the seat of the device indicates the horizontal. 4.7.3. Other designated seating positions: The general procedure indicated in item 4.7.1 above shall be followed except that the feet shall be placed as specified by the vehicle manufacturer. 4.8. Apply lower leg and thigh weights and level the 3 DH machine. 4.9. Tilt the back pan forward against the forward stop and draw the 3 DH machine away from the seat-back using the T-bar. Reposition the 3 DH machine on the seat by one of the following methods: 4.9.1. If the 3 DH machine tends to slide rearward, use the following procedure. Allow the 3 DH machine to slide rearward until a forward horizontal restraining load on the T-bar is no longer required i.e. until the seat pan contacts the seat-back. If necessary reposition the lower leg; 4.9.2. If the 3 DH machine does not tend to slide rearward, use the following procedure. Slide the 3 DH machine rearward by applying a horizontal rearward load to the T-bar until the seat pan contacts the seat-back (see figure 2 of Appendix 1 to this Annex). 4.10. Apply a 100 ± 10 N load to the back and pan assembly of the 3 DH machine at the intersection of the hip angle quadrant and the T-bar housing. The direction of load application shall be maintained along a line passing by the above intersection to a point just above the thigh bar housing (see figure 2 of Appendix 1 to this Annex). Then carefully return the back pan to the seat-back. Care must be exercised throughout the remainder of the procedure to prevent the 3 DH machine from sliding forward. 4.11.
5. RESULTS 5.1. When the manikin has been set up as described in section 4, the H point and the actual seat-back angle of the vehicle seat considered are constituted by the H point and the angle of inclination of the manikin's torso reference line. 5.2. The coordinates of the H point in relation to three mutually perpendicular planes, and the actual seat-back angle, shall be measured for comparison with the data supplied by the vehicle manufacturer. 6. VERIFYING THE RELATIVE POSITIONS OF THE R AND H POINTS AND THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE DESIGN SEAT-BACK ANGLE AND THE ACTUAL SEAT-BACK ANGLE 6.1. The results of the measurements carried out in accordance with 5.2 for the H point and the actual seat-back angle shall be compared with the coordinates of the R point and the design seat-back angle as given by the vehicle manufacturer. 6.2. The relative positions of the R point and the H point and the relationship between the design seat-back angle and the actual seat-back angle shall be considered to be satisfactory for the seating position in question if the H point, as defined by its coordinates, lies within a longitudinal rectangle whose horizontal and vertical sides are 30 mm and 20 mm long respectively and whose diagonals intersect at the R point, and if the actual seat-back angle is within 3º of the design seat-back angle. 6.2.1. If these conditions are met, the R point and the design seat-back angle shall be used for the test and, if necessary, the manikin shall be so adjusted that the H point coincides with the R point and the actual seat-back angle coincides with the design seat-back angle. 6.3. If the H point or the actual seat-back angle does not satisfy the requirements of 6.2, the H point or the actual seat-back angle shall be determined twice more (three times in all). If the results of two of these three operations satisfy the requirements, the results of the test shall be considered to be satisfactory. 6.4. If at least two of the three test results do not satisfy the requirements of 6.2, the result of the test shall be considered to be not satisfactory. 6.5. If the situation described in 6.4 arises, or if verification is not possible because the vehicle manufacturer has failed to supply information regarding the position of the R point or regarding the design seat-back angle, the average of the results of the three tests may be used and be regarded as applicable in all cases where the R point or the design seat-back angle is referred to in this Directive. 6.6. For verifying the relative positions of the R point and the H point and the relationship between the design seat-back angle and the actual seat-back angle in a series-produced vehicle, the rectangle referred to in 6.2 shall be replaced by a square of 50 mm side and the actual seat-back angle shall not differ by more than 5º from the design seat-back angle. Appendix >PIC FILE= "T0011154"> >PIC FILE= "T0011155"> ANNEX IV METHOD FOR DETERMINING THE DIMENSIONAL RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN THE VEHICLE'S PRIMARY REFERENCE MARKS AND THE THREE-DIMENSIONAL REFERENCE GRID 1. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN REFERENCE GRID AND VEHICLE PRIMARY REFERENCE MARKS To verify specific dimensions on or within a vehicle submitted for type-approval in accordance with this Directive, the relationship between the coordinates of the three-dimensional reference grid, defined in 2.3 of Annex I, which has been laid out at the initial vehicle-design stage, and the positions of the primary reference marks defined in 2.4 of Annex I, must be established accurately so that specific points on the vehicle manufacturer's drawings can be identified on an actual vehicle produced from those drawings. 2. METHOD FOR ESTABLISHING RELATIONSHIP OF REFERENCE GRID TO REFERENCE MARKS For this purpose, a ground reference plane shall be constructed which is marked with the X-X measurement and the Y-Y measurement. The method of achieving this is set out in figure 6 of the Appendix to this Annex, the reference plane being a hard, flat, level surface upon which the vehicle stands, and which has two measuring scales firmly fixed to its surface ; these shall be graduated in millimetres, the X-X scale being not less than eight metres long, and the Y-Y scale not less than four metres long. The two scales must be set at right angles to each other as shown in figure 6 of the Appendix to this Annex. The intersection of these scales is ground zero. 3. EXAMINATION OF THE REFERENCE PLANE In order to provide for minor variations in the level of the reference plane or test area, it will be necessary to measure the deviations from ground zero along both the X and Y scales at intervals of 250 mm and to record the readings obtained so that corrections can be made when checking the vehicle. 4. ACTUAL TEST ATTITUDE In order to provide for minor changes in suspension height, etc., it will be necessary to have available a means of bringing the primary reference marks to the correct coordinate positions relative to the design attitude before further measurements are taken. In addition, it must be possible to make minor lateral and/or longitudinal adjustments of the vehicle's position so as to place it accurately in relation to the reference grid. 5. RESULTS The vehicle having been correctly placed relative to the reference grid and in its design attitude, the site of the necessary points for studying the forward visibility requirements can be readily determined. Test methods to determine these requirements may include the use of theodolites, light sources or shadow devices, or any other method which can be shown to give equivalent results. Figure 1 >PIC FILE= "T0011156"> Figure 2 >PIC FILE= "T0011157"> Figure 3 >PIC FILE= "T0011158"> Figure 4 >PIC FILE= "T0011159"> Figure 5 >PIC FILE= "T0011160"> Figure 6 >PIC FILE= "T0011161"> ANNEX V >PIC FILE= "T0011162">
4.11. Install the right and left buttock weights and then, alternately, the eight torso weights. Maintain the 3 DH machine level. 4.12. Tilt the back pan forward to release the tension on the seat-back. Rock the 3 DH machine from side to side through a 10° arc (5° to each side of the vertical centreplane) for three complete cycles to release any accumulated friction between the 3 DH machine and the seat; During the rocking action, the T-bar of the 3 DH machine may tend to diverge from the specified horizontal and vertical alignment. The T-bar must therefore be restrained by applying an appropriate lateral load during the rocking motions. Care shall be exercised in holding the T-bar and rocking the 3 DH machine to ensure that no inadvertent exterior loads are applied in a vertical or fore and aft direction. The feet of the 3 DH machine are not to be restrained or held during this step. If the feet change position, they should be allowed to remain in that attitude for the moment. Carefully return the back pan to the seat-back and check the two spirit levels for zero position. If any movement of the feet has occurred during the rocking operation of the 3 DH machine, they must be repositioned as follows: Alternately, lift each foot off the floor the minimum necessary amount until no additional foot movement is obtained. During this lifting, the feet are to be free to rotate; and no forward or lateral loads are to be applied. When each foot is placed back in the down position, the heel is to be in contact with the structure designed for this. Check the lateral spirit level for zero position; if necessary, apply a lateral load to the top of the back pan sufficient to level the 3 DH machine's seat pan on the seat. 4.13. Holding the T-bar to prevent the 3 DH machine from sliding forward on the seat cushion, proceed as follows: (a) return the back pan to the seat-back; (b) alternately apply and release a horizontal rearward load, not to exceed 25 N, to the back angle bar at a height approximately at the centre of the torso weights until the hip angle quadrant indicates that a stable position has been reached after load release. Care shall be exercised to ensure that no exterior downward or lateral loads are applied to the 3 DH machine. If another level adjustment of the 3 DH machine is necessary, rotate the back pan forward, re-level, and repeat the procedure from item 4.12. 4.14. Take all measurements: 4.14.1. The coordinates of the 'H' point are measured with respect to the three-dimensional reference system. 4.14.2. The actual torso angle is read at the back angle quadrant of the 3 DH machine with the probe in its fully rearward position. 4.15. If a re-run of the installation of the 3 DH machine is desired, the seat assembly should remain unloaded for a minimum period of 30 min prior to the re-run. The 3 DH machine should not be left loaded on the seat assembly longer than the time required to perform the test. 4.16. If the seats in the same row can be regarded as similar (bench seat, identical seats, etc.) only one 'H' point and one 'actual torso angle' shall be determined for each row of seats, the 3 DH machine described in Appendix 1 to this Annex being seated in a place regarded as representative for the row. This place shall be: 4.16.1. in the case of the front row, the driver's seat; 4.16.2. in the case of the rear row or rows, an outer seat. Appendix 1
DESCRIPTION OF THE THREE DIMENSIONAL 'H' POINT MACHINE (
7
) (3 DH machine)
1. Back and seat pans
The back and seat pans are constructed of reinforced plastic and metal; they simulate the human torso and thigh and are mechanically hinged at the 'H' point. A quadrant is fastened to the probe hinged at the 'H' to measure the actual torso angle. An adjustable thigh bar, attached to the set pan, establishes the thigh centreline and serves as a baseline for the hip angle quadrant. 2. Body and leg elements
Lower leg segments are connected to the seat pan assembly at the T-bar joining the knees, which is a lateral extension of the adjustable thigh bar. Quadrants are incorporated in the lower leg segments to measure knee angles. Shoe and foot assemblies are calibrated to measure the foot angle. Two spirit levels orient the device in space. Body element weights are placed at the corresponding centres of gravity to provide seat penetration equivalent to a 76 kg male. All joints of the 3 DH machine should be checked for free movement without encountering noticeable friction. {{IMAGE:Image_0, Caption:Technical diagram of the 3-D H-point machine illustrating its component designations.}} {{IMAGE:Image_1, Caption:Diagram of the 3-D H-point machine illustrating its dimensions, load application points, and the distribution of weights for the torso, buttocks, thighs, and legs.}} Figure 2
DIMENSIONS OF THE 3 DH MACHINE ELEMENTS AND LOAD DISTRIBUTION
Appendix 2
THREE-DIMENSIONAL REFERENCE SYSTEM
1. The three-dimensional reference system is defined by three orthogonal planes established by the vehicle manufacturer (see figure) (
8
). 2.
The vehicle measuring attitude is established by positioning the vehicle on the supporting surface such that the coordinates of the fiducial marks correspond to the values indicated by the manufacturer. 3. The coordinates of the 'R' point and the 'H' point are established in relation to the fiducial marks defined by the vehicle manufacturer. {{IMAGE:Image_2, Caption:Diagram illustrating the three-dimensional reference system relative to a vehicle, defining the Zero X, Y, and Z planes along with the supporting surface and coordinate axes.}} {{IMAGE:Image_3, Caption:A document page outlining the coding of reference data and a form for recording vehicle measuring attitude and seating position specifications.}} ▼B
ANNEX IV
METHOD FOR DETERMINING THE DIMENSIONAL RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN THE VEHICLE'S PRIMARY REFERENCE MARKS AND THE THREE-DIMENSIONAL REFERENCE GRID
1. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN REFERENCE GRID AND VEHICLE PRIMARY REFERENCE MARKS
To verify specific dimensions on or within a vehicle submitted for type-approval in accordance with this Directive, the relationship between the coordinates of the three-dimensional reference grid, defined in 2.3 of Annex I, which has been laid out at the initial vehicle-design stage, and the positions of the primary reference marks defined in 2.4 of Annex I, must be established accurately so that specific points on the vehicle manufacturer's drawings can be identified on an actual vehicle produced from those drawings. 2. METHOD FOR ESTABLISHING RELATIONSHIP OF REFERENCE GRID TO REFERENCE MARKS
For this purpose, a ground reference plane shall be constructed which is marked with the X-X measurement and the Y-Y measurement. The method of achieving this is set out in figure 6 of the Appendix to this Annex, the reference plane being a hard, flat, level surface upon which the vehicle stands, and which has two measuring scales firmly fixed to its surface; these shall be graduated in millimetres, the X-X scale being not less than eight metres long, and the Y-Y scale not less than four metres long. The two scales must be set at right angles to each other as shown in figure 6 of the Appendix to this Annex. The intersection of these scales is ground zero. 3. EXAMINATION OF THE REFERENCE PLANE
In order to provide for minor variations in the level of the reference plane or test area, it will be necessary to measure the deviations from ground zero along both the X and Y scales at intervals of 250 mm and to record the readings obtained so that corrections can be made when checking the vehicle. 4. ACTUAL TEST ATTITUDE
In order to provide for minor changes in suspension height, etc., it will be necessary to have available a means of bringing the primary reference marks to the correct coordinate positions relative to the design attitude before further measurements are taken.
4. ACTUAL TEST ATTITUDE
In order to provide for minor changes in suspension height, etc., it will be necessary to have available a means of bringing the primary reference marks to the correct coordinate positions relative to the design attitude before further measurements are taken.

In addition, it must be possible to make minor lateral and/or longitudinal adjustments of the vehicle's position so as to place it accurately in relation to the reference grid. 5. RESULTS
The vehicle having been correctly placed relative to the reference grid and in its design attitude, the site of the necessary points for studying the forward visibility requirements can be readily determined. Test methods to determine these requirements may include the use of theodolites, light sources or shadow devices, or any other method which can be shown to give equivalent results. {{IMAGE:Image_4, Caption:Diagram illustrating the determination of V points (V1 and V2) relative to the R point within a three-dimensional coordinate system, specifying vertical dimensions and angular projections.}} Figure 1
DETERMINATION OF V POINTS
▼M2
Figure 2
▼M2
Figure 3
▼B
Figure 
►() M2
 4
EVALUATION OF OBSTRUCTIONS IN THE 180° FORWARD DIRECT FIELD OF VISION OF THE DRIVER
Figure 
►() M2
 5
DIMENSIONAL DIAGRAM SHOWING RELATIVE POSITIONS OF E POINTS AND P POINTS
Figure 
►() M2
 6
THREE-DIMENSIONAL REFERENCE GRID
 ▼C1
Figure 
►() M2
 7
LEVEL WORK SPACE
▼B
ANNEX V
MODEL
(
1
) OJ No C 125, 8. 6. 1976, p. 49. (
2
) OJ No C 197, 23. 8. 1976, p. 10. (
3
) OJ No L 42, 23. 2. 1970, p. 1. (
4
) OJ No L 81, 28. 3. 1978, p. 49. (
5
) In any seating position other than front seats where the 'H' point cannot be determined using the 'three-dimensional "H" point machine' or procedures, the 'R' point indicated by the manufacturer may be taken as a reference at the discretion of the competent authority. (
6
) Tilt angle, height difference with a seat mounting, surface texture, etc. (
7
) The machine corresponds to that described in ISO Standard 6549-1980. For details of the construction of the 3 DH machine refer to Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE), 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, Pennsylvania 15096. (
8
) The reference system corresponds to ISO standard 4130-1978.