Article 1a
1.

The requirements set out in Annex V shall apply to tyres intended to be fitted to vehicles first used on or after 1 October 1980.2. The requirements set out in Annex V shall not apply to: (a) tyres whose speed rating is less than 80 km/h; (b) tyres whose nominal rim diameter does not exceed 254 mm (or code 10) or is 635 mm or more (code 25); (c) T type temporary use spare tyres as defined in 2.3.6 of Annex II; (d) tyres designed only to be fitted to vehicles registered for the first time before 1 October 1980. ▼M1
Introduction
COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 92/23/EECof 31 March 1992
relating to tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and to their fitting
(OJ L 129 14.5.1992, p. 95)Amended by:

Official Journal
 No
page
date
►M1
DIRECTIVE 2001/43/EC OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 27 June 2001
 L 211
25
4.8.2001
►M2
COMMISSION DIRECTIVE 2005/11/EC Text with EEA relevance of 16 February 2005
 L 46
42
17.2.2005
Amended by: A1
ACT concerning the conditions of accession of the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden and the adjustments to the Treaties on which the European Union is founded
 C 241
21
29.8.1994
(adapted by Council Decision 95/1/EC, Euratom, ECSC)
 L 001
1
.. ▼B
COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 92/23/EECof 31 March 1992relating to tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and to their fitting
4.1. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
ANNEX V
4.1. General requirements
TYRE/ROAD NOISE EMISSIONThis annex applies to the EC type-approval of tyres, as components, in respect of tyre/road noise emissions.For the purposes of this Annex, the definitions of Annex II shall apply, except for the definition under section 2.1., which shall read as follows: 2.1. 'Type of tyre' means, in relation to type-approval pursuant to this Annex (tyre/road noise emission), a range of tyres consisting of a list of tyre size designations (see section 2.17 in Annex II), brand names, trade marks and trade descriptions which do not differ in such essential characteristics as: — the manufacturer's name
— the tyre classification (see section 2.4. of this Annex)
— the tyre structure (see section 2.1.4. of Annex II)
— the category of use (see section 2.1.3. of Annex II)
— for class C1 tyres. Reinforced or Extra Load
— the tread pattern (see 2.3 of Information Document, Annex I, Appendix 3). Note: The effect of changes in minor details of tyre tread and construction on the tyre/road noise emission will be determined during checks on the conformity of production. In addition, the following definitions shall also apply: 2.2. 'Brand name or trade description'
means the identification for the tyre as provided by the tyre manufacturer. The brand name may be the same as the manufacturer and the trade description may coincide with the trade mark. 2.3. 'Tyre/road noise emission'
means the noise arising from the contact between tyres in motion and the road surface. 2.4. For the purpose of this Annex, the following classification shall apply:

| class C1 tyres | passenger car tyres (see section 2.32. of Annex II); |
|---|---|
| class C2 tyres | commercial vehicle tyres (see section 2.33. of Annex II) with load capacity index in single formation ≤ 121 and speed category symbol ≥ 'N' (see section 2.29.3. of Annex II); |
| class C3 tyres | commercial vehicle tyres (see section 2.33. of Annex II) with load capacity index in single formation ≤ 121 and speed category symbol ≤ 'M' (see section 2.29.3. of Annex II) or commercial vehicle tyres (see section 2.33. of Annex II) with load capacity index in single formation ≥ 122. | 3.1. In addition to other marking requirements given in section 4 of Annex I and section 3 of Annex II, the tyre must bear the following markings: 3.1.1. the manufacturer's name or trade mark; the brand name, the trade description or the trade mark. A set of four tyres bearing the same tyre size designation and tread pattern that is representative of the range of tyres, shall be submitted to a tyre/road noise emission level test to be carried out as specified in Appendix 1. 4.2. The noise levels determined in accordance with section 4.5 of Appendix 1 shall not exceed the following limits: 4.2.1. Class C1 tyres, with reference to the nominal section width (see Annex II, section 2.17.1.1.) of the tyre that has been tested:

|  |  | Limit values in dB(A) | Limit values in dB(A) | Limit values in dB(A) |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Tyre Class | Nominal section width (mm) | A | B (1) | C (1) (2) |
| C1a | ≤ 145 | 72 (*1) | 71 (*1) | 70 |
| C1b | > 145 ≤ 165 | 73 (*1) | 72 (*1) | 71 |
| C1c | > 165 ≤ 185 | 74 (*1) | 73 (*1) | 72 |
| C1d | > 185 ≤ 215 | 75 (*2) | 74 (*2) | 74 |
| C1e | > 215 | 76 (*3) | 75 (*3) | 75 |
| (*1) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2007; (*2) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2008; (*3) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2009; (1) Indicative figures only. Definitive figures will depend on amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. (2) Limit values for column C will result from the amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. | (*1) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2007; (*2) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2008; (*3) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2009; (1) Indicative figures only. Definitive figures will depend on amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. (2) Limit values for column C will result from the amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. | (*1) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2007; (*2) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2008; (*3) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2009; (1) Indicative figures only. Definitive figures will depend on amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. (2) Limit values for column C will result from the amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. | (*1) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2007; (*2) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2008; (*3) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2009; (1) Indicative figures only. Definitive figures will depend on amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. (2) Limit values for column C will result from the amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. | (*1) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2007; (*2) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2008; (*3) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2009; (1) Indicative figures only. Definitive figures will depend on amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. (2) Limit values for column C will result from the amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. | 4.2.1.1. For reinforced (or Extra Load) tyres (see Annex II, section 3.1.8.), the limit values in section 4.2.1. shall be increased by 1 dB(A)
4.2.1.2. For tyres classified in category of use 'Special', (see Annex II, section 2.1.3.), the limit values in section 4.2.1. shall be increased by 2 dB(A). 4.2.2. Class C2 tyres with reference to the category of use (see Annex II, section 2.1.3.) of the range of tyres:

| Category of use | Limit value expressed in dB(A) |
|---|---|
| Normal | 75 |
| Snow | 77 |
| Special | 78 | 4.2.3. Class C3 tyres, with reference to the category of use (see Annex II, section 2.1.3.) of the range of tyres:

| Category of use | Limit value expressed in dB(A) |
|---|---|
| Normal | 76 |
| Snow | 78 |
| Special | 79 |

Appendix 1
4.3. Temperature correction
TEST METHOD FOR TYRE-ROAD SOUND LEVELS COAST-BY METHODThe presented method contains specifications on measuring instruments, measurement conditions and the measurement method, in order to obtain the noise level of a set of tyres mounted on a test vehicle rolling at high speed on a specified road surface. The maximum sound pressure level is to be recorded, when the test vehicle is coasting, by remote-field microphones; the final result of a reference speed is obtained from a linear regression analysis. Such test results cannot be related to tyre noise measured during acceleration under power or deceleration during braking.The sound level meter or the equivalent measuring system, including the windscreen recommended by the manufacturer, shall at least meet the requirements of Type 1 instruments in accordance with IEC 60651, second edition.The measurements shall be made using the frequency weighting A, and the time weighting F.When using a system that includes a periodic monitoring of the A-weighted sound level, a reading should be made at a time interval not greater than 30 ms.At the beginning and at the end of every measurement session, the entire measurement system shall be checked by means of a sound calibrator that fulfils the requirements for sound calibrators of at least precision Class 1 according to IEC 942:1988.
6.2. DOCUMENTATION OF VEHICLE NOISE TESTS CONDUCTED ON THE SURFACE
ANNEX VI
6.2. Documentation of vehicle noise tests conducted on the surface
SPECIFICATIONS FOR THE TEST SITEThis annex describes the specifications relating to the physical characteristics and the laying of the test track. These specifications based on a special standard (
16
) describe the required physical characteristics as well as the test methods for these characteristics.A surface is considered to conform to this standard provided that the texture and voids content or sound absorption coefficient have been measured and found to fulfil all the requirements of sections 2.1. to 2.4. below and provided that the design requirements (section 3.2.) have been met.The residual voids content (VC) of the test track paving mixture shall not exceed 8 %. For the measurement procedure, see section 4.1.If the surface fails to comply with the residual voids content requirement, the surface is acceptable only if its sound absorption coefficient α ≤ 0,10. For the measurement procedure, see section 4.2. The requirement of sections 2.1. and 2.2. is also met if only sound absorption has been measured and found to be α ≤ 0.10.Note:The most relevant characteristic is the sound absorption, although the residual voids content is more familiar among road constructors. However, sound absorption needs to be measured only if the surface fails to comply with the voids requirement. This is justified because the residual voids content has relatively large uncertainties in terms of both measurements and relevance and some surfaces may therefore erroneously be rejected when based only on the voids measurement.The texture depth (TD) measured according to the volumetric method (see section 4.3. below) shall be: Every practical effort shall be taken to ensure that the surface is made to be as homogeneous as possible within the test area. This includes the texture and voids content, but it should also be observed that if the rolling process results in more effective rolling at some places than others, the texture may be different and unevenness causing bumps may also occur.In order to check whether the surface continues to conform to the texture and voids content or sound absorption requirements stipulated in this Annex, periodic testing of the surface shall be carried out at the following intervals: (a) For residual voids content (VC) or sound absorption (α):
when the surface is new; if the surface meets the requirements when new, no further periodical testing is required. If it does not meet the requirement when it is new, it may do so later because surfaces tend to become clogged and compacted with time. (b) For texture depth (TD):
when the surface is new; when the noise testing starts (NB: not before four weeks after laying);
then every twelve months. When designing the test track layout it is important to ensure that, as a minimum requirement, the area traversed by the vehicles running through the test strip is covered with the specified test material with suitable margins for safe and practical driving. This will require that the width of the track is at least 3 m and the length of the track extends beyond lines AA and BB by at least 10 m at either end. Figure 1 shows a plan of a suitable test site and indicates the minimum area which shall be machine laid and machine compacted with the specified test surface material. According to Annex 5, Appendix 1, section 3.2., measurements have to be made on each side of the vehicle. This can be made either by measuring with two microphone locations (one on each side of the track) and driving in one direction, or measuring with a microphone only on one side of the track but driving the vehicle in two directions. If the latter method is used, then there are no surface requirements on that side of the track where there is no microphone. Figure 1
Minimum requirements for test surface area
The shaded part is called 'Test Area'. The test surface shall meet four design requirements: 3.2.1.1. It shall be a dense asphaltic concrete. 3.2.1.2. The maximum chipping size shall be 8 mm (tolerances allow from 6,3 mm to 10 mm). 3.2.1.3. The thickness of the wearing course shall be ≥ 30 mm.
3.2.1.4. The binder shall be a straight penetration grade bitumen without modification. As a guide to the surface constructor, an aggregate grading curve which will give desired characteristics is shown in Figure 2. In addition, Table 1 gives some guidelines in order to obtain the desired texture and durability. The grading curve fits the following formula: where: d
=
square mesh sieve size, in mm
dmax
=
8 mm for the mean curve
10 mm for the lower tolerance curve
6,3 mm for the upper tolerance curve
Figure 2:
Grading curve of the aggregate in the asphaltic mix with tolerances
In addition to the above, the following recommendations are made: (a) The sand fraction (0,063 mm < square mesh sieve size < 2 mm) shall include no more than 55 % natural sand and at least 45 % crushed sand. (b) The base and sub-base shall ensure a good stability and evenness, according to best road construction practice. (c) The chippings shall be crushed (100 % crushed faces) and of a material with a high resistance to crushing. (d) The chippings used in the mix shall be washed. (e) No extra chippings shall be added onto the surface. (f) The binder hardness expressed as PEN value shall be 40-60, 60-80 or even 80-100 depending on the climatic conditions of the country. The rule is that as hard a binder as possible shall be used, provided this is consistent with common practice. (g) The temperature of the mix before rolling shall be chosen so as to achieve by subsequent rolling the required voids content. In order to increase the probability of satisfying the specifications of sections 2.1. to 2.4. above, the compactness shall be studied not only by an appropriate choice of mixing temperature, but also by an appropriate number of passings and by the choice of compacting vehicle.

|  | Target values | Target values | Tolerances |
|---|---|---|---|
|  | By total mass of mix | By mass of the aggregate | Tolerances |
| Mass of stones, square mesh sieve (SM) > 2 mm | 47,6 % | 50,5 % | ± 5 |
| Mass of sand 0,063 < SM < 2 mm | 38,0 % | 40,2 % | ± 5 |
| Mass of filler SM <0,063 mm | 8,8 % | 9,3 % | ± 2 |
| Mass of binder (bitumen) | 5,8 % | N.A. | ± 0,5 |
| Max. chipping size | 8 mm |  | 6,3 - 10 |
| Binder hardness | (see para. 3.2.2. (f)) | (see para. 3.2.2. (f)) |  |
| Polished stone value (PSV) | > 50 |  |  |
| Compactness, relative to Marshall compactness | 98 % |  |  |

For the purpose of this measurement, cores have to be taken from the track in at least four different positions which are equally distributed in the test area between lines AA and BB (see figure 1). In order to avoid non-homogeneity and unevenness in the wheel tracks, cores should not be taken in wheel tracks themselves, but close to them. Two cores (minimum) should be taken close to the wheel tracks and one core (minimum) should be taken approximately midway between the wheel tracks and each microphone location.If there is a suspicion that the condition of homogeneity is not met (see section 2.4.), cores shall be taken from more locations within the test area.The residual voids content has to be determined for each core, then the average value from all cores shall be calculated and compared with the requirement of section 2.1. In addition, no single core shall have a voids value which is higher than 10 %.The test surface constructor is reminded of the problem which may arise when the test area is heated by pipes or electrical wires and cores must be taken from this area. Such installations must be carefully planned with respect to future core drilling locations.
3. MARKING REQUIREMENTS
ANNEX II
3. MARKING REQUIREMENTS
REQUIREMENTS FOR TYRES
2.1. 'type of tyre' means a category of tyres which do not differ in such essential respects as: 2.1.1. manufacturer's name or trade mark; 2.1.2. tyre-size designation; 2.1.3. category of use: normal
:
normal road-use tyre,
special
:
special-use tyre, e.g. tyre for mixed use (both on and off the road) and at restricted speed,
— snow tyre,
— temporary-use spare tyre; 2.1.4. structure (diagonal (bias-ply), bias-belted, radial-ply); 2.1.5. speed category; 2.1.6. load capacity index; 2.1.7. tyre cross-section; 2.2. 'snow tyre' means a tyre the tread pattern and structure of which are primarily designed to ensure in mud and fresh or melting snow a performance better than that of a normal tyre. The tread pattern of a snow tyre generally consists of groove (rib) and/or solid-block elements more widely spaced than on a normal tyre; 2.3. 'structure' of a tyre means the technical characteristics of the tyre's carcass. The following structures are distinguished in particular: 2.3.1. 'diagonal' or 'bias-ply' describes a tyre structure in which the ply cords extend to the bead and are laid at alternate angles of substantially less than 90o to the centreline of the tread; 2.3.2. 'bias-belted' describes a tyre structure of diagonal (bias-ply) type in which the carcass is restricted by a belt comprising two or more layers of substantially inextensible cord material laid at alternate angles close to those of the carcass; 2.3.3. 'radial' describes a tyre structure in which the ply cords extend to the beads and are laid substantially at 90o to the centreline of the tread, the carcass being stabilized by an essentially inextensible circumferential belt; 2.3.4. 'reinforce' describes a tyre structure in which the carcass is more resistant than that of the corresponding standard tyre; 2.3.5. 'temporary-use spare tyre' means a tyre different from a tyre intended to be fitted to any vehicle for normal driving conditions; but intended only for temporary use under restricted driving conditions; 2.3.6. 'T-type temporary-use spare tyre' means a type of temporary-use spare tyre designed for use at inflation pressure higher than those established for standard and reinforced tyres; 2.4. 'bead' means the part of a tyre which is of such shape and structure as to fit the rim and hold the tyre on it (
10
);
2.5. 'cord' means the strands forming the fabric of the plies in the tyre (10) ;
2.6. 'ply' means a layer of rubber-coated parallel cords (10) ;
2.7. 'carcass' means that part of a tyre other than the tread and the rubber sidewalls which, when inflated, bears the load (10) ;
2.8. 'tread' means that part of a tyre which comes into contact with the ground (
11
);
2.9. 'sidewall' means the part of the tyre, excluding the tread, which is visible when the tyre, fitted to a rim, is viewed from the side (11) ;
2.10. 'lower sidewall' means the area below the line of maximum section width of the tyre, which is visible when the tyre, fitted to a rim, is viewed from the side (11) ;
2.11. 'tread groove' means the space between the adjacent ribs or blocks in the tread pattern (11) ;
2.12. 'section width' means the linear distance between the outsides of the sidewalls of an inflated tyre, excluding elevations due to labelling (marking), decoration or protective bands or ribs (11) ;
2.13. 'overall width' means the linear distance between the outsides of the sidewalls of an inflated tyre, including labelling (marking), decoration and protective bands or ribs (11) ;
2.14. 'section height' means a distance equal to half the difference between the outer diameter of the tyre and the nominal rim diameter (11) ;
2.15. 'nominal aspect ratio Ra' means one hundred times the number obtained by dividing the number expressing the nominal section height in millimetres by the number expressing the nominal section width in millimeters; 2.16. 'outer diameter' means the overall diameter of an inflated new tyre (11) ;
2.17. 'tyre-size designation': 2.17.1. means a designation showing: 2.17.1.1. the nominal secton width. This width must be expressed in mm, except in the case of tyres for which the size designation is shown in the first column of the tables in Appendix 5;
2.17.1.2. the nominal aspect ratio, except in the case of tyres for which the size designation is shown in the first column of the tables in Appendix 5;
2.17.1.3. a conventional number 'd' (the 'd' symbol) denoting the nominal rim diameter and corresponding to the diameter of the rim expressed either in inches (number below 100 — see table) or in mm (numbers above 100) but not both.

| 'd'Nominal rim diameter (the symbol) | 'd'Nominal rim diameter (the symbol) |
|---|---|
| Expressed in inches (code) | Equivalence in mm (reference section 6.1.2.1) |
| 10 | 254 |
| 11 | 279 |
| 12 | 305 |
| 13 | 330 |
| 14 | 356 |
| 15 | 381 |
| 16 | 406 |
| 17 | 432 |
| 18 | 457 |
| 19 | 483 |
| 20 | 508 |
| 21 | 533 |
| 22 | 559 |
| 24 | 610 |
| 25 | 635 |
| 145 | 368 |
| 165 | 419 |
| 175 | 445 |
| 195 | 495 |
| 205 | 521 |
| 225 | 572 |
| 245 | 622 | 2.17.1.4. the letter 'T' in front of the nominal section width in case of T-type temporary-use spare tyres; 2.18. 'nominal rim diameter (d)' means the diameter of the rim on which a tyre is designed to be mounted (
12
);
2.19. 'rim' means the support for a tyre-and-tube assembly, or for a tubeless tyre, on which the tyre beads are seated (12) ;
2.20. 'theoretical rim' means the notional rim whose width would be equal to x times the nominal section width of a tyre; the value 'x' must be specified by the tyre manufacturer; 2.21. 'measuring rim' means the rim on which a tyre must be fitted for size measurements; 2.22. 'test rim' means the rim on which a tyre must be fitted for testing; 2.23. 'chunking' means the breaking away of pieces of rubber from the tread; 2.24. 'cord separation' means the parting of the cords from their rubber coating; 2.25. 'ply separation' means the parting of adjacent plies; 2.26. 'tread separation' means the pulling away of the tread from the carcass; 2.27. 'tread-wear indicators' mean projections within the tread-grooves designed to give a visual indication of the degree of wear of the tread; 2.28. 'load-capacity index' means one or two numbers which indicate the load the tyre can carry in single or in single and dual formation at the speed corresponding to the associated speed category and when operated in conformity with the requirements governing utilization specified by the manufacturer. The list of these indices and their corresponding masses is given in Annex II, Appendix 2;
2.28.1. on passenger car tyres there must be one load index only; 2.28.2. on commercial vehicle tyres there may be one or two load indices, the first one for single formation and the second one, when present, for dual (twin) formation in which case the two indices are divided by a slash (/);
2.28.3. a type of tyre may have either one or two sets of load capacity indices depending on whether or not the provisions of section 6.2.5 are applied; 2.29. 'speed category', expressed by the speed category symbol as shown in the table in 2.29.3;
2.29.1. in the case of a passenger car tyre, the maximum speed which the tyre can sustain; 2.29.2. in the case of a commercial vehicle tyre, the speed at which the tyre can carry the mass corresponding to the load capacity index; 2.29.3. The speed categories are as shown in the table below:

| Speed category symbol | Corresponding speed (km/h) |
|---|---|
| F | 80 |
| G | 90 |
| J | 100 |
| K | 110 |
| L | 120 |
| M | 130 |
| N | 140 |
| P | 150 |
| Q | 160 |
| R | 170 |
| S | 180 |
| T | 190 |
| U | 200 |
| H | 210 |
| V | 240 |

2.29.4. tyres suitable for maximum speeds higher than 240 km/h are identified by means of the letter code 'Z' placed within the tyre size designation;
3.8. SPECIFICATIONS FOR TEMPORARY-USE SPARE UNITS
ANNEX IV
3.8. Specifications for temporary-use spare units
REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES WITH REGARD TO THE FITTING OF THEIR TYRES
2.1. 'approval of a vehicle' means the approval of a vehicle type with regard to its tyres, including temporary-use spare tyres;

2.2. 'vehicle type' means a range of vehicles which do not differ significantly, at least as regards each variant of the vehicle type, in such essential aspects as would affect the tyre size designation, the speed category symbol or the load capacity index: 2.3. 'wheel' means a complete wheel consisting of a rim and a wheel disc; 2.4. 'temporary-use spare wheel' means a wheel different from one of the normal wheels on the vehicle type; 2.5. 'unit' means an assembly of a wheel and tyre; 2.6. 'normal unit' means a unit which is capable of being fitted to the vehicle for normal operation; 2.7. 'spare unit' means a unit which is intended to be exchanged for a normal unit in case of malfunction of the latter. A 'spare unit' may be either of the following: 2.7.0. 'normal spare unit', which is a unit that conforms to the normal unit of the vehicle type; 2.7.1. 'temporary-use spare unit', which is a unit that differs from the normal units of the vehicle type with regard to their principal characteristics (e.g. their tyre-size designation, functional dimensions, conditions of use or structure). It is intended for temporary use under restricted conditions. Temporary-use spare units may be of the following categories: 2.7.1.1. category 1
a unit consisting of a wheel which conforms to a wheel of a normal unit and a tyre which has principal characteristics (e.g. dimensions, structure) different to the normal tyre; 2.7.1.2. category 2
a unit consisting of a wheel and a tyre both having principal characteristics different to the normal unit and intended to be carried on the vehicle with the tyre inflated to the pressure specified for temporary use; 2.7.1.3. category 3
a unit consisting of a normal wheel and a tyre having principal characteristics different to a normal tyre and intended to be carried on the vehicle with the tyre folded and not inflated; 2.7.1.4. category 4
a unit consisting of a wheel and tyre both having principal characteristics different to a normal unit and intended to be carried on the vehicle with the tyre folded and not inflated; 2.8. 'maximum mass' means the maximum value stated by the vehicle manufacturer to be technically permissible for the vehicle; 2.9. 'maximum axle load' means the maximum value stated by the vehicle manufacturer to be technically permissible for the total vertical force between the contact surfaces of the tyres of the axle in question and the ground and resulting from the part of the vehicle mass supported by that axle. The sum of the axle loads may be greater than the value corresponding to the maximum mass of the vehicle; 2.10. 'functional dimensions' means dimensions derived from the size designation of the wheels and/or tyres (e.g. diameter, width, aspect ratio) and from the mounting of the unit to the vehicle (e.g. wheel offset); 2.11. 'maximum design speed' means the maximum speed approved for the vehicle type inclusive of the tolerance allowed for the conformity checks of the series production. ▼M1
3.1.1. Subject to the provisions of section 3.7.4., every tyre fitted to a vehicle, including where applicable any spare, must bear the EC type-approval mark(s) as specified in section 4 of Annex I or the type-approval mark indicating compliance with UN/ECE Regulations Nos 30 or 54. UN/ECE type-approval marks are considered to be equivalent only to the EC type-approval marks granted pursuant to Annex II. ▼B
3.2.1. All of the tyres fitted to a vehicle, excluding any temporary use spare, must have the same structure (see Annex II section 2.3). 3.2.2. All of the tyres fitted to one axle must be of the same type (see Annex II section 2.1). 3.2.3. The space in which the wheel revolves must be such as to allow unrestricted movement when using the maximum permissible size of tyres within the suspension and steering constraints provided by the vehicle manufacturer. 3.3.1. Subject to the provisions of section 3.7, the maximum load rating (see Annex II section 2.31) of every tyre, including a spare tyre (if provided) with which a vehicle is fitted is: 3.3.1.1. in the case of a vehicle fitted with tyres of the same type in single formation: at least equal to half of the maximum axle load (see section 2.9) for the most heavily loaded axle, as declared by the manufacturer of the vehicle; 3.3.1.2. in the case af a vehicle fitted with tyres of more than one type, in single formation: at least equal to half of the maximum axle load (see section 2.9), as declared by the manufacturer of the vehicle, in respect of the relevant axle; 3.3.1.3. in the case of a vehicle fitted with passenger car tyres in dual (twin) formation: at least equal to 0,27 times the maximum axle load, as declared by the manufacturer of the vehicle, in respect of the relevant axle; 3.3.1.4. in the case of axles fitted with commercial vehicle tyres in dual (twin) formation: at least equal to 0,25 times, with reference to the load capacity index for dual application, the maximum axle load as declared by the manufacturer of the vehicle, in respect of the relevant axle. 3.4.1. Every tyre with which a vehicle is normally fitted must have a speed category symbol (see Annex II section 2.29) compatible with the maximum design speed of the vehicle (as declared by the vehicle manufacturer) or the applicable load/speed combination (see Annex II section 2.30). 3.4.2. The above specification does not apply: 3.4.2.1. in the case of temporary use spare units for which section 3.8 applies; 3.4.2.2. in the case of vehicles normally equipped with ordinary tyres and occassionally supplied with snow tyres. However, in this case the speed category symbol of the snow tyres must correspond to a speed either greater than the maximum design speed of the vehicle (as declared by the vehicle manufacturer) or not less than 160 km/h (or both). If, nevertheless, the maximum design speed of the vehicles (as declared by the vehicle manufacturer) is greater than the speed corresponding to the speed category symbol of the snow tyres a maximum speed warning label, specifying the maximum speed capability of the snow tyres, must be displayed inside the vehicle in a prominent position readily visible to the driver. 3.5.1. In the case where a vehicle is provided with a spare wheel its tyre must be: 3.5.1.1. the same type as one of the tyres fitted to or approved for the vehicle, or
3.5.1.2. a temporary-use spare tyre of a type suitable for use on the vehicle, in any position. However, no vehicle other than a vehicle of category M1 ay be fitted with a temporary-use spare tyre. 3.5.2. Every vehicle provided with a temporary-use spare unit must be provided with supplementary information clearly and permanently displayed on the temporary-use spare unit or on the vehicle near the spare unit or in the driver's handbook. At least the following information must be given: 3.5.2.1. an instruction to drive with caution when the temporary-use spare unit is fitted, and to install a normal unit as soon as possible; 3.5.2.2. a statement that operation of the vehicle is not permitted with more than one temporary-use spare unit fitted at the same time; 3.5.2.3. a clear indication of the inflation pressure specified by the vehicle manufacturer for the tyre of the temporary-use spare unit;
5. PRODUCTION DEFINITIVELY DISCONTINUED
ANNEX III
5. PRODUCTION DEFINITIVELY DISCONTINUED
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS FOR THE TYPE-APPROVAL OF VEHICLES WITH REGARD TO THE FITTING OF THEIR TYRES
1.1. The application for 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ of a vehicle type with regard to its tyres is submitted by the vehicle manufacturer or by his authorized representative.

1.2. It is accompanied, in triplicate, by a description of the vehicle type and of its tyres in terms of their tyre-size designation, speed category and load-capacity index, including any temporary-use spare unit(s), with which it may be fitted as described in the information document in Appendix 1. 
1.3. A vehicle representative of the vehicle type to be approved must be submitted to the technical service responsible for conducting the approval tests. 1.4. The vehicle manufacturer or his representative may apply for the 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ to be extended to include tyres of additional tyre-size designations, speed categories or load-capacity indices or additonal temporary-use spare unit(s). 2.1. ►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ is granted and an 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ number issued in respect of any vehicle type submitted in accordance with section 1 which satisfied the requirements of this Directive. 2.2. Notice of approval or of extension or of refusal of approval of a vehicle type pursuant to this Directive is communicated to the Member States by means of a form conforming to the model in Appendix 2. 
2.3. An approval number is assigned to each vehicle type approved. The same Member State must not assign the same number to another vehicle type. 3.1. Every modification of a vehicle type must be notified to the approval authority which approved it. That approval authority may then either: 3.1.1. consider that the modifications made are unlikely to have an appreciable adverse effect and that in any case the vehicle still meets the requirements; or
3.1.2. refuse to approve the modification. 3.2. Confirmation or refusal of approval, specifying the alterations, is communicated to the other Member States by the procedure specified in sections 2.2. 
4.1. Every production vehicle to which this Directive applies must be so manufactured that it conforms to all of the relevant requirements of this Directive. 4.2. In order to verify that the requirements of section 4.1 are met, suitable controls of the production must be carried out. 4.3. The holder of the approval must in particular ensure the existence of procedures for effectively checking on compatibility between the characteristics of the vehicle and the characteristics of the tyres fitted as laid down within the framework of this Directive. 4.4. The approval authority which has granted type-approval may at any time verify the conformity control methods applicable to each production unit. 4.4.1. In every inspection, the test books and productions survey records must be presented to the visiting inspector. 4.5. The normal frequency of inspections authorized by the approval authority in one per year. In the case where negative results are recorded during one of these visits, the approval authority must ensure that all necessary steps are taken to re-establish the conformity of production as rapidly as possible. If the holder of an approval completely ceases to manufacture a type of vehicle approved in accordance with this Directive, he must so inform the authority which granted the approval. Upon receiving the relevant communication that authority must inform thereof the other approval authorities by means of a copy of the approval form bearing at the end, in large letters, the signed and dated annotation 'PRODUCTION DISCONTINUED'. Appendix 1
INFORMATION DOCUMENT No...IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANNEX I TO COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 70/156/EEC RELATING TO 
►M1
 EC TYPE-APPROVAL ◄ OF A VEHICLE TYPE WITH REGARD TO THE FITTING OF ITS TYRES
(DIRECTIVE 92/23/EEC)
Appendix 2
MODEL
[(maximum format: A4 (210 × 297 mm)]
►M1
 EC TYPE-APPROVAL ◄ CERTIFICATE(vehicle)
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
6. CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION
ANNEX I
6. CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS FOR THE EC TYPE-APPROVAL OF TYRES
1.1. The application for EC type-approval for a type of tyre pursuant to Article 3(4) of Directive 70/156/EEC is to be submitted by the tyre manufacturer.

1.1.1. The application for EC type-approval pursuant to Annex II is to be accompanied, in triplicate, by a description of the tyre type as described in the information document in Appendix 1. 1.1.1.1. The application must be accompanied (all in triplicate) by a sketch, or a representative photograph, which identifies the tyre tread pattern and a sketch of the envelope of the inflated tyre mounted on the measuring rim showing the relevant dimensions (see sections 6.1.1. and 6.1.2. of Annex II) of the type submitted for approval. 1.1.1.2. It must be accompanied either by the test report issued by the appointed technical service or by a number of samples to be determined by the approval authority. 1.1.2. The application for EC type-approval pursuant to Annex V is to be accompanied, in triplicate, by a description of the tyre type as described in the information document in Appendix 3. 1.1.2.1. The application must be accompanied (all in triplicate) by sketches, drawings or photographs of the tread pattern(s) that is/are representative of the type of tyres. 1.1.2.2. It must also be accompanied either by the test report issued by the appointed technical service or by a number of samples to be determined by the approval authority. 1.2. The manufacturer may apply for EC type-approval to be extended
1.2.1. to include modified tyre types for EC type-approvals pursuant to Annex II and/or
1.2.2. to include additional tyre size designations and/or amended brand names or manufacturer's trade descriptions and/or tread patterns for EC type-approvals pursuant to Annex V. ▼M2
1.3. The approval authority may accept the laboratories of the tyre manufacturers as approved test laboratories pursuant to Article 14(1) of Directive 70/156/EEC. ▼M1
2.1. Samples of a type of tyre submitted for EC type-approval must bear the applicant's clearly visible and indelible trade mark or name and must allow sufficient space for the inscription of the EC type-approval mark as required in section 4 of this Annex. 3.1. EC type-approval pursuant to Article 4 of Directive 70/156/EEC is to be granted and an EC type-approval number is to be issued in respect of any tyre type, submitted in accordance with 1.1.1. above, which satisfies the requirements of Annex II. 3.1.1. Notice of approval or extension or refusal or withdrawal of approval or of production definitively discontinued in relation to a tyre type pursuant to Annex II must be communicated to the Member States in accordance with Article 4(6) of Directive 70/156/EEC. 3.1.2. EC type-approval pursuant to Article 4 of Directive 70/156/EEC is to be granted and an EC type-approval number is to be issued in respect of any tyre type, submitted in accordance with 1.1.2. above, which satisfies the requirements of Annex V.
3.2.1. Notice of approval or extension or refusal or withdrawal of approval or of production definitely discontinued in relation to a tyre type pursuant to Annex V must be communicated to the Member States in accordance with Article 4(6) of Directive 70/156/EEC. 3.3. An EC type-approval number is to be assigned to each tyre type-approved. The same Member State must not assign the same number to another tyre type. In particular, approval numbers assigned pursuant to Annex II and EC type-approval numbers assigned pursuant to Annex V must be different. 4.1. Any tyre conforming to a type in respect of which EC type-approval has been granted pursuant to this Directive must bear the relevant EC type-approval mark. 4.2. The EC type-approval mark will consist of a rectangle surrounding the lower case letter 'e' followed by the distinguishing number of the Member State which has granted the type-approval as per Annex VII to Directive 70/156/EEC. The EC type-approval number will consist of the EC type-approval number shown on the certificate completed for the type, preceded by two figures: '00' for commercial vehicle tyres, '02' for passenger car tyres. 4.2.1. The rectangle forming the EC type-approval mark must have a minimum length of 12 mm and a minimum height of 8 mm. Letter(s) and number(s) must be at least 4 mm in height. 4.3. The EC type-approval marks and numbers, and any additional marks required in Annex II, section 3., the latter for the type-approval pursuant to the requirements of Annex II, must be affixed as prescribed in that section. 4.4. Approval numbers assigned pursuant to Annex V must be followed by the suffix 's' where 's' is an abbreviation for sound. 4.5. An example of the EC type-approval mark is given below: The tyre bearing the EC type-approval mark shown above is a commercial vehicle tyre (00) satisfying the EC requirements (e), for which the EC type-approval mark has been granted in Ireland (24) under the number 479 pursuant to Annex II and in Italy (3) under the number 687-s pursuant to Annex V.
Note: The numbers '479' and '687' (EC-mark type-approval numbers) and the number '24' and the digit '3' (letters and number of the Member States which granted the EC approval) are for guidance only. The approval numbers must be placed close to the rectangle and may be above, below, to the left or to the right. The characters of the approval number must all be on the same side of the 'e' and face in the same direction. 5.1. If a tyre type-approved pursuant to Annex II or pursuant to Annex V has been modified, the provisions of Article 5 of Directive 70/156/EEC shall apply. 5.2. If the tread pattern of a tyre has been modified in the case of type-approvals pursuant to Annex II, no repetition of the tests prescribed in Annex II is considered necessary. 5.3. In the case where tyre-size designations or trade marks are added to a range of tyres type-approved pursuant to Annex V, any requirement for retesting shall be determined by the type approval authority. 5.4. In the case of modification of the tyre tread pattern of a range of tyres approved pursuant to Annex V, a representative set of samples shall be retested unless the type approval authority is satisfied that the modification does not affect the tyre/road noise emissions. 6.1. The general rules to ensure the conformity of production shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions laid down in Article 10 of Directive 70/156/EEC. 6.2. In particular, when checks are carried out in accordance with Appendix 1 to Annex V in order to check the conformity of production, if the noise level of the tyre tested does not exceed the limit values set out in section 4.2. of Annex V by more than 1 dB(A), the production shall be deemed to conform to the requirements of section 4 of the abovementioned Annex V.
Appendix 1
INFORMATION DOCUMENT No … RELATING TO EC TYPE-APPROVAL FOR A TYPE OF TYRE
(Annex II to Directive 92/23/EEC)
Appendix 2
EC TYPE-APPROVAL CERTIFICATE(tyres)
MODEL
(maximum format: A4 (210 mm × 297 mm))
▼B
►(7) M1
►(7) M1
►(7) M1
►(7) M1
►(7) M1
►(7) M1
►(7) M1
►(3) M1
►(3) M1
►(3) M1
▼M1
Appendix 3
Appendix 4
▼B
Article 1
For the purposes of this Directive:

▼M1
— 'tyre' means any new pneumatic tyre including a winter tyre with holes for studs, in the form of original equipment or of a replacement, intended to be fitted to vehicles to which Directive 70/156/EEC applies. This definition does not cover winter tyres with studs; ▼B
— 'vehicle' means any vehicle to which Council Directive 70/156/EEC applies; — 'manufacturer' means the holder of the trade name or mark of vehicles or tyres. ▼M1
Article 2
1. Member States shall grant EC type-approval, under the conditions laid down in Annex I, to all types of tyres meeting the requirements of Annex II, and shall allocate to these an approval number as specified in Annex I.2. Member States shall grant EC type-approval, under the conditions laid down in Annex I, to all types of tyres meeting the requirements of Annex V and shall allocate to these an approval number as specified in Annex I.3. Member States shall grant EC type-approval to all vehicles in respect of their tyres under the conditions laid down in Annex III, where those tyres (including spare tyres, where appropriate) meet the requirements of Annex II and the requirements concerning vehicles laid down in Annex IV, and shall allocate to any such vehicle an approval number as specified in Annex III
▼B
Article 3
The approval authority of a Member State shall, within one month of issuing or refusing an 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ (tyre) or vehicle EC type-approval, send a copy of the relevant certificate, models of which are given in the Appendices to Annex I and Annex III, to the other Member States and, if requested, send the test report on any type of tyre approved.
Article 4
No Member State may prohibit or restrict the placing on the market of tyres bearing the 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ mark.
Article 5
No Member State may refuse to grant 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ or national type-approval to a vehicle on grounds relating to its tyres if these bear the 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ mark and are fitted in accordance with the requirements laid down in Annex IV.
Article 6
No Member State may refuse or prohibit the sale, registration, entry into service or use of a vehicle on grounds relating to its tyres if these bear the 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ mark and are fitted in accordance with the requirements laid down in Annex IV.
Article 7
1. If, on the basis of a substantiated justification, a Member State considers that a tyre type or a vehicle type is dangerous although complying with the requirements of this Directive, it may, within its territory, provisionally prohibit the marketing of that product or subject it to special conditions.

It shall immediately inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof, stating the grounds for its decision.2. The Commission shall, within six weeks, consult the Member States concerned, following which it shall deliver its opinion without delay and take the appropriate steps.3. If the Commission is of the opinion that technical adaptations to the Directives are necessary, such adaptations shall be adopted by either the Commission or the Council in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10. In this event, the Member State which has adopted safeguard measures may maintain them until the entry into force of the adaptations.
Article 8
1. The Member State which has granted the 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ (tyre) or vehicle type-approval shall take the measures required in order to verify that production models conform to the approved type in so far as this is necessary and if need be in cooperation with the approval authorities in the other Member States.

For this purpose, this Member State may at any time check the conformity of the tyres or vehicles to the requirements of this Directive. Such verification shall be limited to spot checks.2. If this Member State finds that a number of tyres or vehicles with the same approval marking do not conform to the approved type, it shall take the necessary measures to ensure that production models so conform. Where there is a consistent failure to conform, these measures may extend to a withdrawal of 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ . The said authorities shall take the same measure if they are informed by the approval authorities of another Member State of such failure to conform.3. The approval authorities of the Member States shall within one month notify each other using the relevant form shown in the Appendices to Annex I and Annex III of any withdrawal of 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ and of the reasons for such a measure.
Article 9
Any decision taken pursuant to the provisions adopted in implementation of this Directive to refuse or withdraw 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ for a tyre or 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ of a vehicle with regard to the fitting of its tyres implying a prohibition of marketing or of use shall set out in detail the reasons on which it is based.

Every such decision shall be notified to the party concerned, who shall at the same time be informed of the remedies available to him under the laws in force in the Member States and of the time limits allowed for the exercise of such remedies.
Article 10
Any amendments necessary to adapt the requirements of the Annexes to technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13 of Directive 70/156/EEC.

▼M1
Article 10a
1. As from 4 February 2003, Member States may not:

(a) refuse to grant EC type-approval or national approval for a type of vehicle or type of tyre, or
(b) prohibit the registration, sale or entry into service of vehicles, and the sale or entry into service or use of tyres,
for reasons relating to the tyres and their fitting to new vehicles, if the vehicles or tyres comply with the requirements laid down in this Directive, as amended by Directive 2001/43/EC (
9
).2. As from 4 August 2003, Member States may no longer grant EC type-approval, and shall refuse to grant national type-approval for those types of tyre which fall within the scope of this Directive and which do not meet the requirements of this Directive, as amended by Directive 2001/43/EC.3. As from 4 February 2004, Member States may no longer grant EC type-approval or national approval for a type of vehicle, for reasons relating to its tyres or their fitting, if the requirements of this Directive, as amended by Directive 2001/43/EC, are not met.4. As from 4 February 2005, Member States shall: (a) consider certificates of conformity accompanying new vehicles in accordance with the provisions of Directive 70/156/EEC as being no longer valid for the purposes of Article 7(1) of the said Directive, if the requirements of this Directive, as amended by Directive 2001/43/EC, are not met, and
(b) refuse the registration or prohibit the sale or entry into service of new vehicles which do not meet the requirements of this Directive, as amended by Directive 2001/43/EC. 5. As from 1 October 2009, the provisions of this Directive, as amended by Directive 2001/43/EC, shall apply for the purposes of Article 7(2) of Directive 70/156/EC, to all tyres which fall within the scope of this Directive, with the exception of tyres of classes C1d and C1e, to which they shall apply as from 1 October 2010 and 1 October 2011 respectively. ▼B
Article 11
1. Member States shall adopt and publish the provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 1 July 1992 and shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof.When the Member States adopt these measures, they shall contain a reference to this Directive or shall be accompanied by such a reference on the occasion of their official publication.

The methods of making such a reference shall be laid down by the Member States.They shall apply these measures from 1 January 1993.2. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the texts of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
Article 12
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.

LIST OF ANNEXES
▼M1
ANNEX I
Administrative provisions for the EC type-approval of tyres
Appendix 1
Information document relating to EC type-approval for a type of tyre
Appendix 2
EC type-approval certificate (tyres)
Appendix 3
Information document relating to EC type-approval for a type of tyre relating to tyre/road noise emission
Appendix 4
EC type-approval certificate (tyre/road noise emission)
ANNEX II (1) Requirements for tyres
Appendix 1
Explanatory figure
Appendix 2
List of symbols of load-capacity indices and corresponding maximum mass to be carried
Appendix 3
Arrangement of tyre markings
Appendix 4
Relationship between the pressure index and the units of pressure
Appendix 5
Measuring rim, outer diameter and section width of tyres of certain size designations
Appendix 6
Method of measuring tyre dimensions
Appendix 7
Load/speed test procedure
Appendix 8
Variation of load capacity index with speed; commercial-vehicle tyres radial and diagonal
ANNEX III
Administrative provisions for type-approval of vehicles with regard to the fitting of their tyres
Appendix 1
Information document for a vehicle
Appendix 2
EC type-approval certificate for a vehicle
ANNEX IV
Requirements for vehicles with regard to the fitting of their tyres
ANNEX V
Tyre/road noise emission
Appendix 1
Test method for tyre-road sound levels, coast-by method
Appendix 2
Test report
ANNEXE VI
Specifications for the test site
(1) The technical requirements for tyres are similar to those of Regulations Nos 30 and 54 of the UN Economic Commission for Europe (UN/ECE). ANNEX IADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS FOR THE EC TYPE-APPROVAL OF TYRES1. APPLICATION FOR THE EC TYPE-APPROVAL OF A TYPE OF TYRE
1.1. The application for EC type-approval for a type of tyre pursuant to Article 3(4) of Directive 70/156/EEC is to be submitted by the tyre manufacturer. 1.1.1. The application for EC type-approval pursuant to Annex II is to be accompanied, in triplicate, by a description of the tyre type as described in the information document in Appendix 1. 1.1.1.1. The application must be accompanied (all in triplicate) by a sketch, or a representative photograph, which identifies the tyre tread pattern and a sketch of the envelope of the inflated tyre mounted on the measuring rim showing the relevant dimensions (see sections 6.1.1. and 6.1.2. of Annex II) of the type submitted for approval. 1.1.1.2. It must be accompanied either by the test report issued by the appointed technical service or by a number of samples to be determined by the approval authority. 1.1.2. The application for EC type-approval pursuant to Annex V is to be accompanied, in triplicate, by a description of the tyre type as described in the information document in Appendix 3. 1.1.2.1. The application must be accompanied (all in triplicate) by sketches, drawings or photographs of the tread pattern(s) that is/are representative of the type of tyres. 1.1.2.2. It must also be accompanied either by the test report issued by the appointed technical service or by a number of samples to be determined by the approval authority. 1.2. The manufacturer may apply for EC type-approval to be extended
1.2.1. to include modified tyre types for EC type-approvals pursuant to Annex II and/or
1.2.2. to include additional tyre size designations and/or amended brand names or manufacturer's trade descriptions and/or tread patterns for EC type-approvals pursuant to Annex V. ▼M2
1.3. The approval authority may accept the laboratories of the tyre manufacturers as approved test laboratories pursuant to Article 14(1) of Directive 70/156/EEC. ▼M1
2. INSCRIPTIONS
2.1. Samples of a type of tyre submitted for EC type-approval must bear the applicant's clearly visible and indelible trade mark or name and must allow sufficient space for the inscription of the EC type-approval mark as required in section 4 of this Annex. 3. EC TYPE-APPROVAL
3.1. EC type-approval pursuant to Article 4 of Directive 70/156/EEC is to be granted and an EC type-approval number is to be issued in respect of any tyre type, submitted in accordance with 1.1.1. above, which satisfies the requirements of Annex II. 3.1.1. Notice of approval or extension or refusal or withdrawal of approval or of production definitively discontinued in relation to a tyre type pursuant to Annex II must be communicated to the Member States in accordance with Article 4(6) of Directive 70/156/EEC. 3.1.2. EC type-approval pursuant to Article 4 of Directive 70/156/EEC is to be granted and an EC type-approval number is to be issued in respect of any tyre type, submitted in accordance with 1.1.2. above, which satisfies the requirements of Annex V.
3.2.1. Notice of approval or extension or refusal or withdrawal of approval or of production definitely discontinued in relation to a tyre type pursuant to Annex V must be communicated to the Member States in accordance with Article 4(6) of Directive 70/156/EEC. 3.3. An EC type-approval number is to be assigned to each tyre type-approved. The same Member State must not assign the same number to another tyre type. In particular, approval numbers assigned pursuant to Annex II and EC type-approval numbers assigned pursuant to Annex V must be different. 4. EC TYPE-APPROVAL MARKING
4.1. Any tyre conforming to a type in respect of which EC type-approval has been granted pursuant to this Directive must bear the relevant EC type-approval mark. 4.2. The EC type-approval mark will consist of a rectangle surrounding the lower case letter 'e' followed by the distinguishing number of the Member State which has granted the type-approval as per Annex VII to Directive 70/156/EEC. The EC type-approval number will consist of the EC type-approval number shown on the certificate completed for the type, preceded by two figures: '00' for commercial vehicle tyres, '02' for passenger car tyres. 4.2.1. The rectangle forming the EC type-approval mark must have a minimum length of 12 mm and a minimum height of 8 mm. Letter(s) and number(s) must be at least 4 mm in height. 4.3. The EC type-approval marks and numbers, and any additional marks required in Annex II, section 3., the latter for the type-approval pursuant to the requirements of Annex II, must be affixed as prescribed in that section. 4.4. Approval numbers assigned pursuant to Annex V must be followed by the suffix 's' where 's' is an abbreviation for sound. 4.5. An example of the EC type-approval mark is given below: {{IMAGE:Image_0, Caption:Examples of EC type-approval marks showing the 'e' symbol and country code enclosed in a rectangle, with the corresponding approval number positioned below.}} The tyre bearing the EC type-approval mark shown above is a commercial vehicle tyre (00) satisfying the EC requirements (e), for which the EC type-approval mark has been granted in Ireland (24) under the number 479 pursuant to Annex II and in Italy (3) under the number 687-s pursuant to Annex V.
Note: The numbers '479' and '687' (EC-mark type-approval numbers) and the number '24' and the digit '3' (letters and number of the Member States which granted the EC approval) are for guidance only. The approval numbers must be placed close to the rectangle and may be above, below, to the left or to the right. The characters of the approval number must all be on the same side of the 'e' and face in the same direction. 5. MODIFICATION OF A TYRE TYPE
5.1. If a tyre type-approved pursuant to Annex II or pursuant to Annex V has been modified, the provisions of Article 5 of Directive 70/156/EEC shall apply. 5.2. If the tread pattern of a tyre has been modified in the case of type-approvals pursuant to Annex II, no repetition of the tests prescribed in Annex II is considered necessary. 5.3. In the case where tyre-size designations or trade marks are added to a range of tyres type-approved pursuant to Annex V, any requirement for retesting shall be determined by the type approval authority.
Council Directive 92/23/EEC of 31 March 1992 relating to tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and to their fitting
COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 92/23/EEC of 31 March 1992 relating to tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and to their fittingTHE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 100a thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission (1), In cooperation with the European Parliament (2), Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3), Whereas measures should be adopted in order gradually to establish the internal market during a period expiring on 31 December 1992;

whereas the internal market comprises an entity without internal frontiers within which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital shall be guaranteed; Whereas the total harmonization method will be essential in order fully to achieve the single market; Whereas this method will have to be used at the time of the revision of the entire EEC type-approval procedure, taking account of the spirit of the Council resolution of 7 May 1985 concerning a new approach to the question of technical harmonization and standardization; Whereas the technical requirements which motor vehicles and their trailers must satisfy pursuant to national laws relate, inter alia, to pneumatic tyres; Whereas these requirements differ from one Member State to another; whereas it is therefore necessary that all Member States adopt the same requirements either in addition to or in place of their existing rules in order to permit, in particular, the EEC type-approval procedure which was the subject of Council Directive 70/156/EEC of 6 February 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the type-approval of motor vehicles and their trailers (4), as last amended by Directive 87/403/EEC (5), to be introduced in respect of each type of vehicle; Whereas rules on tyres should lay down common requirements concerning not only their characteristics, but also the requirements for the equipment of vehicles and their trailers with regard to their tyres; Whereas, consequently, a common procedure for granting an EEC mark to any tyre type complying with the common characteristics and test requirements should be established; whereas, at the Community level, to ensure the free movement of tyres, the conformity of the tyres with the common requirements is assured by the affixing on each tyre of an EEC mark which has been granted to the manufacturer in accordance with the abovementioned procedure; whereas any Member States may, in order to check the conformity of the tyres with the common requirements, carry out controls at any moment; whereas, in the case of a statement of non-conformity, the Member States need to take the necessary steps to ensure the conformity of the tyres with the requirements; whereas these measures may result in the withdrawal of the abovementioned EEC mark; Whereas it is desirable to take into account the technical requirements adopted by the UN Economic Commission for Europe in its Regulation N° 30 ('Uniform provisions concerning the approval of pneumatic tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers`), as amended (6), and in its Regulation N° 54 ('Uniform provisions concerning the approval of pneumatic tyres for commercial vehicles and their trailers`) (7) and in its Regulation N° 64 ('Uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles equipped with temporary-use spare wheels/tyres`) (8), which are annexed to the Agreement of 20 March 1958 concerning the adoption of uniform conditions for approval and reciprocal recognition of approval for motor vehicle equipment and parts; Whereas the approximation of national laws relating to motor vehicles entails reciprocal recognition by Member States of the checks carried out by each of them on the basis of the common requirements, HAS ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: Article 1For the purposes of this Directive: - 'tyre` means any new pneumatic tyre designed for the equipment of vehicles ot which Council Directive 70/156/EEC applies; - 'vehicle` means any vehicle to which Council Directive 70/156/EEC applies; - 'manufacturer` means the holder of the trade name or mark of vehicles or tyres. Article 21. Member States shall grant EEC component type-approval under the conditions of Annex I for any tyre type which satisfies the requirements of Annex II and shall grant a EEC component type-approval number as specified in Annex I. 2. Member States shall grant EEC type-approval for a vehicle with regard to its tyres under the conditions of Annex III for any vehicle for which all the tyres (including the spare tyre, if any) satisfy the requirements of Annex II and also the requirements with regard to vehicles of Annex IV and shall grant an EEC vehicle type-approval number as specified in Annex III. Article 3The approval authority of a Member State shall, within one month of issuing or refusing an EEC component (tyre) or vehicle type-approval, send a copy of the relevant certificate, models of which are given in the Appendices to Annex I and Annex III, to the other Member States and, if requested, send the test report on any type of tyre approved. Article 4N° Member State may prohibit or restrict the placing on the market of tyres bearing the EEC component type-approval mark. Article 5N° Member State may refuse to grant EEC type-approval or national type-approval to a vehicle on grounds relating to its tyres if these bear the EEC component type-approval mark and are fitted in accordance with the requirements laid down in Annex IV. Article 6N° Member State may refuse or prohibit the sale, registration, entry into service or use of a vehicle on grounds relating to its tyres if these bear the EEC component type-approval mark and are fitted in accordance with the requirements laid down in Annex IV. Article 71. If, on the basis of a substantiated justification, a Member State considers that a tyre type or a vehicle type is dangerous although complying with the requirements of this Directive, it may, within its territory, provisionally prohibit the marketing of that product or subject it to special conditions. It shall immediately inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof, stating the grounds for its decision. 2. The Commission shall, within six weeks, consult the Member States concerned, following which it shall deliver its opinion without delay and take the appropriate steps. 3. If the Commission is of the opinion that technical adaptations to the Directives are necessary, such adaptations shall be adopted by either the Commission or the Council in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 10. In this event, the Member State which has adopted safeguard measures may maintain them until the entry into force of the adaptations. Article 81. The Member State which has granted the EEC component (tyre) or vehicle type-approval shall take the measures required in order to verify that production models conform to the approved type in so far as this is necessary and if need be in cooperation with the approval authorities in the other Member States. For this purpose, this Member State may at any time check the conformity of the tyres or vehicles to the requirements of this Directive. Such verification shall be limited to spot checks. 2. If this Member State finds that a number of tyres or vehicles with the same approval marking do not conform to the approved type, it shall take the necessary measures to ensure that production models so conform. Where there is a consistent failure to conform, these measures may extend to a withdrawal of EEC type-approval. The said authorities shall take the same measure if they are informed by the approval authorities of another Member State of such failure to conform.
3.5.2.3. a clear indication of the inflation pressure specified by the vehicle manufacturer for the tyre of the temporary-use spare unit; 3.5.2.4. for vehicles equipped with category 3 or category 4 temporary-use spare units, a description of the procedure for inflating the tyre to the pressure specified for temporary use by means of the device referred to in section 3.6;
3.6.1. if the vehicle is equipped with a category 3 or category 4 temporary-use spare unit, a device must be provided on the vehicle which permits the tyre to be inflated to the pressure specified for temporary use within a maximum of five minutes. 3.7.1. In the case of trailers of categories 01 and 02 with operating speeds restricted to 100 km/h or less fitted with passenger car tyres in single formation, the maximum load rating of every tyre must be at least equal to 0,45 times the maximum mass for the most heavily loaded axle, as declared by the manufacturer of the trailer. For tyres in dual (twin) formation this factor is 0,24. 3.7.2. In the case of some special vehicles fitted with commercial vehicle tyres, the table 'Variation of Load Capacity with Speed' (see section 2.30 and Appendix 8 to Annex II) is not to be applied. In those cases the tyre maximum load ratings to check against the maximum axle loads (see sections 3.3.1.2 and 3.3.1.4 of this Annex) are determined by multiplying the load corresponding to the load capacity index by an appropriate coefficient which is related to the type of vehicle and its use rather than to the maximum design speed of the vehicle. In such cases section 3.4.1 of this Annex does not apply. The appropriate cofficients are as follows: 3.7.2.1. 1,10 in the case of vehicles of category M3 when the vehicle is carrying standing passengers and the operating speed does not exceed 60 km/h. However, for operational reasons Member States may allow the operating speed to be increased to 80 km/h;
3.7.2.2. 1,15 in the case of such vehicles (M3) if they are intended for use only on urban routes with frequent stops; 3.7.2.3. 1,10 in the case of public utility vehicles of category N used at slow speeds over short distances in urban and suburban applications such as road sweepers or refuse collectors. 3.7.3. When a motor vehicle of category M1 is towing a trailer, the additional load imposed at the trailer coupling device may cause the tyre maximum load ratings to be exceeded, but not by more than 15 %, provided that the operating speed is restricted to 100 km/h or less and the inflation pressure increased by at least 0,2 bar is applied. 3.7.4. In the case of a vehicle which is fitted with tyres which are not passenger car tyres nor commercial vehicle tyres due to special conditions of use (e.g. agricultural tyres, industrial truck tyres, motor cycle tyres) the requirements of Annex II do not apply provided that the approval authority is satisfied that the tyres fitted are suitable for the operating conditions of the vehicle. 3.8.1. Every temporary-use spare tyre must have a speed category at least equal to 120 km/h (speed category symbol L). 3.8.2. When fitted to the vehicle for temporary use the outward facing surface of the wheel must exhibit a distinctive colour or colour pattern which is clearly different from the colour(s) of the normal units. If it is possible to attach a wheel cover to the temporary-use spare unit the distinctive colour or colour pattern must not be obscured by this wheel cover. 3.8.3. A maximum speed warning symbol must be permanently displayed on the outer face of the wheel in a prominent position and in accordance with the diagram below: ▼M1
Such test results cannot be related to tyre noise measured during acceleration under power or deceleration during braking.The sound level meter or the equivalent measuring system, including the windscreen recommended by the manufacturer, shall at least meet the requirements of Type 1 instruments in accordance with IEC 60651, second edition.The measurements shall be made using the frequency weighting A, and the time weighting F.When using a system that includes a periodic monitoring of the A-weighted sound level, a reading should be made at a time interval not greater than 30 ms.At the beginning and at the end of every measurement session, the entire measurement system shall be checked by means of a sound calibrator that fulfils the requirements for sound calibrators of at least precision Class 1 according to IEC 942:1988. Without any further adjustment the difference between the readings of two consecutive checks shall be less than or equal to IEC 942:1988. Without any further adjustment the difference between the readings of two consecutive checks shall be less than or equal to 0,5 dB. If this value is exceeded, the results of the measurements obtained after the previous satisfactory check shall be discarded.The compliance of the sound calibration device with the requirements of IEC 60942:1988 shall be verified once a year and the compliance of the instrumentation system with the requirements of IEC 60651:1979/A1:1993, second edition, shall be verified at least every two years by a laboratory which is authorised to perform calibrations traceable to the appropriate standards.The microphone (or microphones) must be located at a distance of 7,5 m ± 0,05 m from track reference line CC1 (figure 1) and 1,2 m ± 0,02 m above the ground. Its axis of maximum sensitivity must be horizontal and perpendicular to the path of the vehicle (line CC1).The vehicle speed shall be measured with instruments with an accuracy of ± 1 km/h or better when the front end of the vehicle has reached line PP′ (figure 1).Measurements of air as well as test surface temperature are mandatory. The temperature measuring devices shall be accurate within ± 1 oC.The temperature sensor is to be positioned in an unobstructed location close to the microphone in such a way that it is exposed to the airflow and protected from direct solar radiation. The latter may be achieved by any shading screen or similar device. The sensor should be positioned at a height of 1,2 m ± 0,1 m above the test surface level in order to minimise the influence of the test surface thermal radiation at low airflows.The temperature sensor is to be positioned in a location where the temperature measured is representative of the temperature in the wheel tracks, without interfering with the sound measurement.If an instrument with a contact temperature sensor is used, heat-conductive paste shall be applied between the surface and the sensor to ensure adequate thermal contact.If a radiation thermometer (pyrometer) is used, the height should be chosen to ensure that a measuring spot with a diameter of ≥ 0,1 m is covered.The device must be capable of measuring the wind speed with a tolerance of ± 1 m/s. The wind shall be measured at microphone height. The wind direction with reference to the driving direction shall be recorded.The test site must consist of a central section surrounded by a substantially flat test area. The measuring section must be level; the test surface must be dry and clean for all measurements. The test surface shall not be artificially cooled during or prior to the testing.The test track must be such that the conditions of a free sound field between the sound source and the microphone are attained to within 1 dB(A). These conditions shall be deemed to be met if there are no large sound reflecting objects such as fences, rocks, bridges or buildings within 50 m of the centre of the measuring section. The surface of the test track and the dimensions of the test site shall be in accordance with Appendix 2 of this Annex.A central part of at least 10 m radius shall be free of powdery snow, tall grass, loose soil, cinders or the like. There must be no obstacle which could affect the sound field within the vicinity of the microphone and no persons shall stand between the microphone and the sound source. The operator carrying out the measurements and any observers attending the measurements must position themselves so as not to affect the readings of the measuring instruments.Measurements shall not be made under poor atmospheric conditions. It must be ensured that the results are not affected by gusts of wind. Testing shall not be performed if the wind speed at the microphone height exceeds 5 m/s.Measurements shall not be made if the air temperature is below 5 oC or above 40 oC or the test surface temperature is below 5 oC or above 50 oC.The background sound level (including any wind noise) shall be at least 10 dB(A) less than the measured tyre-road sound emission. A suitable windscreen may be fitted to the microphone provided that account is taken of its effect on the sensitivity and directional characteristics of the microphone.Any measurement affected by a sound peak which appears to be unrelated to the characteristics of the general sound level of tyres shall be ignored.The test vehicle shall be a motor vehicle and be fitted with four single tyres on just two axles.The vehicle must be loaded such as to comply with the test tyre loads as specified in section 2.5.2. below.The wheelbase between the two axles fitted with the test tyres shall for Class C1 be less than 3,50 m and for Class C2 and Class C3 tyres be less than 5 m.To ensure that tyre noise is not significantly affected by the test vehicle design the following requirements and recommendations are given. Requirements: (a) Spray suppression flaps or other extra device to suppress spray shall not be fitted. (b) Addition or retention of elements in the immediate vicinity of the rims and tyres, which may screen the emitted sound, is not permitted. (c) Wheel alignment (toe in, camber and castor) shall be in full accordance with the vehicle manufacturer's recommendations. (d) Additional sound absorbing material may not be mounted in the wheel housings or under the underbody. (e) Suspension shall be in such a condition that it does not result in an abnormal reduction in ground clearance when the vehicle is loaded in accordance with the testing requirement. If available, body level regulation systems shall be adjusted to give a ground clearance during testing which is normal for unladen condition. Recommendations to avoid parasitic sound: (a) Removal or modification of components on the vehicle that any contribute to the background sound of the vehicle is recommended. Any removals or modifications shall be recorded in the test report. (b) During testing it should be ascertained that brakes are not poorly released, causing brake noise. (c) It should be ascertained that electric cooling fans are not operating. (d) Windows and sliding roof of the vehicle shall be closed during testing. Four identical tyres of the same type and range must be fitted to the test vehicle. In the case of tyres with a load capacity index in excess of 121 and without any dual fitting indication, two of these tyres of the same type and range must be fitted to the rear axle of the test vehicle; the front axle must be fitted with tyres of a size suitable for the axle load and planed down to the minimum depth in order to minimise the influence of tyre/road contact noise while maintaining a sufficient level of safety. Winter tyres that in certain Member States may be equipped with studs intended to enhance friction shall be tested without this equipment. Tyres with special fitting requirements shall be tested in accordance with these requirements (e.g. rotation direction).
Such installations must be carefully planned with respect to future core drilling locations. It is recommended to leave a few locations of size approximately 200 mm × 300 mm where there are no wires/pipes or where the latter are located deep enough in order not to be damaged by cores taken from the surface layer.The sound absorption coefficient (normal incidence) shall be measured by the impedance tube method using the procedure specified in ISO 10534-1: 'Acoustics — Determination of sound absorption coefficient and impedance by a tube method' (
17
).Regarding test specimens, the same requirements shall be followed as regarding the residual voids content (see section 4.1). The sound absorption shall be measured in the range between 400 Hz and 800 Hz and in the range between 800 Hz and 1 600 Hz (at least at the centre frequencies of third octave bands) and the maximum values shall be identified for both of these frequency ranges. Then these values, for all test cores, shall be averaged to constitute the final result.For the purpose of this standard, texture depth measurements shall be made on at least 10 positions evenly spaced along the wheel tracks of the test strip and the average value taken to compare with the specified minimum texture depth. See Standard ISO 10844:1994 for description of the procedure.In common with any other surfaces, it is expected that the tyre-road noise level measured on the test surface may increase slightly during the first 6 — 12 months after construction.The surface will achieve its required characteristics not earlier than four weeks after construction. The influence of age on the noise from trucks is generally less than that from cars.Stability over time is determined mainly by polishing and compaction by vehicles driving on the surface. It shall be periodically checked as stated in section 2.5.Loose debris or dust which could significantly reduce the effective texture depth must be removed from the surface. In countries with winter climates, salt is sometimes used for de-icing. Salt may alter the surface temporarily or even permanently in such a way as to increase noise and is therefore not recommended.If it is necessary to repave the test track, it is usually unnecessary to repave more than the test strip (of 3 m width in figure 1) where vehicles are driving, provided the test area outside the strip met the requirement of residual voids content or sound absorption when it was measured.The following data shall be given in a document describing the test surface: 6.1.1. The location of the test track. 6.1.2. Type of binder, binder hardness, type of aggregate, maximum theoretical density of the concrete (DR), thickness of the wearing course and grading curve determined from cores from the test track. 6.1.3. Method of compaction (e.g. type of roller, roller mass, number of passes). 6.1.4. Temperature of the mix, temperature of the ambient air and wind speed during laying of the surface. 6.1.5. Date when the surface was laid and contractor. 6.1.6. All or at least the latest test result, including: 6.1.6.1. the residual voids content of each core; 6.1.6.2. the locations in the test area from where the cores for voids measurements have been taken; 6.1.6.3. the sound absorption coefficient of each core (if measured). Specify the results both for each core and each frequency range as well as the overall average; 6.1.6.4. the locations in the test area from where the cores for absorption measurement have been taken; 6.1.6.5. texture depth, including the number of tests and standard deviation; 6.1.6.6. the institution responsible for tests according to sections 6.1.6.1. and 6.1.6.2. and the type of equipment used; 6.1.6.7. date of the test(s) and date when the cores were taken from the test track. In the document describing the vehicle noise test(s) it shall be stated whether all the requirements of this standard were fulfilled or not. Reference shall be made to a document according to section 6.1. describing the results which verify this. (
1
) OJ No C 95, 12. 4. 1990, p. 101.(
2
) OJ No C 284, 12. 11. 1990, p. 81 and Decision of 12. 2. 1992 (not yet published in the Official Journal).(
3
) OJ No C 225, 10. 9. 1990, p. 9.(
4
) OJ No L 42, 23. 2. 1970, p. 1.(
5
) OJ No L 220, 8. 8. 1987, p. 44.(
6
) Economic Commission for Europe document E/ECE/324(E3/ECE/TRANS/505) REV 1 — ADD 29, 1. 4. 1975 and its amendments 01, 02 and supplements.(
7
) Economic Commission for Europe document E/ECE/324(E/ECE/TRANS/505) REV 1 — ADD 53 and supplements.(
8
) Economic Commission for Europe document E/ECE/324(E/ECE/TRANS/505) REV 1 — ADD 63 and supplements.(
9
) Directive 2001/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 June 2001 amending Council Directive 92/23/EEC relating to tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and to their fitting (OJ L 211, 4.8.2001, p. 25).(
10
) See explanatory figure, Appendix 1.(
11
) See explanatory figure, Appendix 1.(
12
) See explanatory figure, Appendix 1.(
13
) Equivalence factor from inches to mm is 25,4.(
14
) In the case of passenger car tyres intended for vehicles designed for a maximum speed greater than 240 km/h (Z rated tyres), until uniform test procedures have been agreed the manufacturer of the tyre must satisfy the technical service that his test procedure and results are acceptable.(
15
) In the case of commercial vehicle tyres intended for vehicles designed for a maximum speed greater than 150 km/h, until uniform test procedures have been agreed the manufacturer of the tyre must satisfy the technical service that his test procedure and results are acceptable.(
16
) ISO 10844:1994 If a different test surface is defined by ISO, in the future, the reference standard will be amended accordingly.(
17
) To be published.
2.29.4. tyres suitable for maximum speeds higher than 240 km/h are identified by means of the letter code 'Z' placed within the tyre size designation; 2.29.5. a type of tyre may have either one or two sets of speed category symbols depending on whether or not the provisions of section 6.2.5 are applied; 2.30. 'table: Variation of load capacity with speed' means: the table, in Annex II Appendix 8, showing as a function of the load capacity indices and nominal speed category symbols the load variations which a tyre can withstand when used at speeds different from that corresponding to its speed category symbol; 2.30.1. the load variations do not apply in the case of passenger car tyres nor, in the case of commercial vehicle tyres, to the additional load capacity indices and speed category symbol when the provisions of section 6.2.5 are applied; 2.31. 'maximum load rating' means the maximum mass the tyre is rated to carry: 2.31.1. in the case of passenger car tyres suitable for speeds not exceeding 210 km/h, the maximum load rating must not exceed the value associated with the load capacity index of the tyre; 2.31.2. in the case of passenger car tyres suitable for speeds exceeding 210 km/h, but not exceeding 240 km/h (tyres classified with speed category symbol 'V'), the maximum load rating must not exceed the percentage of the value associated with the load capacity index of the tyre, indicated in the table below, with reference to the speed capability of the vehicle to which the tyre is fitted;

| Maximum speed (km/h) | Load (%) |
|---|---|
| 215 | 985 |
| 220 | 97 |
| 225 | 955 |
| 230 | 94 |
| 235 | 925 |
| 240 | 91 |

for intermediate maximum speeds linear interpolations of the maximum load rating are allowed; 2.31.3. for speeds exceeding 240 km/h ('Z tyres') the maximum load rating must not exceed the value specified by the tyre manufacturer with reference to the maximum speed capability of the vehicle to which it is fitted; 2.31.4. in the case of commercial vehicle tyres, the maximum load rating, both for single and for dual formation, must not exceed the percentage of the value associated with the relevant load capacity index of the tyre as indicated in the table 'Load-capacity variation with speed' (see 2.30), with reference to the speed category symbol of the tyre and the speed capability of the vehicle to which the tyre is fitted. When additional load capacity indices and speed category symbols apply, those too are considered to determine the maximum load rating of the tyre; 2.32. 'passenger car tyre' means a tyre designed primarily, but not only, for passenger cars (motor vehicles in category M1) and their trailers (01 and 02); 2.33. 'commercial vehicle tyre' means a tyre designed primarily, but not only, for vehicles other than passenger cars (motor vehicles in categories M2, M3, N) and their trailers (03, 04); 2.34. 'tyre ground pressure (F/Ac)' means the average until load transmitted by the tyre, through its contact area, to the road surface expressed as the ratio between the vertical force (F), in static conditions on the axis of the wheel and the tyre contact area (Ac) measured with the tyre inflated at the cold inflation pressure recommended for the intended type of service. It is expressed in kN/m2; 2.35. 'tyre contact area (Ac)' means the area of the flat surface contained within the virtual perimeter of the tyre footprint. It is expressed in m2; 2.36. 'virtual perimeter of the tyre footprint' means the convex polygonal curve circumscribing the smallest area containing all points of contact between the tyre and the ground; 2.37. 'cold inflation pressure' means the internal pressure of the tyre with the tyre at ambient temperature and does not include any pressure build up due to tyre usage. It is expressed in bar kPa. 3.1. Tyres must bear: 3.1.1. the manufacturer's name or trade mark; 3.1.2. the tyre-size designation as defined in section 2.17; 3.1.3. an indication of the structure as follows: 3.1.3.1. on diagonal (bias-ply) tyres, no making or the letter 'D';
3.1.3.2. on radial-ply tyres, the letter 'R' placed in front of the nominal in diameter marking and, optionally, the word 'RADIAL'; 3.1.3.3. on bias-belted tyres, the letter 'B' placed in front of the nominal rim diameter marking and, in addition, the words 'BIAS-BELTED'; 3.1.4. an indication of the tyre's speed category by means of the symbol shown in section 2.29; in the case of tyres suitable for speeds higher than 240 km/h the speed category of the tyre must be indicated by the letter code 'Z' placed in front of the indication of the structure (see section 3.1.3);
3.1.5. the inscription 'M + S' (for alternatively 'M.S.' or 'M & S') in the case of a snow tyre; 3.1.6. the load-capacity index as defined in section 2.28; 3.1.6.1. however, in the case of tyres suitable for speeds higher than 240 km/h the indication of the load capacity index may be omitted; 3.1.7. the word 'TUBELESS' if the tyre is designed for use without an inner tube; 3.1.8. the word 'REINFORCED' if the tyre is a reinforced tyre; 3.1.9. the date of manufacture in the form of a group of three digits, the first two showing the week and the last one the year of manufacture; 3.1.10. in the case of commercial vehicle tyres which can be regrooved, the symbol '' at last 20 mm in diameter, or the word 'REGROOVABLE', moulded into or on to each sidewall; 3.1.11. in the case of commercial vehicles tyres, an indication, by the 'PSI' index (see Appendix 4), of the inflation pressure to be adopted for the load/speed tests, as explained in Appendic 7 Part B;
3.1.12. the additional load capacity index/indices and the speed category symbol in the case where the provisions of section 6.2.5 are applied. 3.2. Appendix 3 gives examples of the arrangement of tyre markings. 3.3. The tyre must also bear the 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ mark, the model of which is given in Annex I, section 4.5. POSITION OF MARKINGS
3.4. The markings referred to in section 3.1 and 3.3 must be clearly and legibly moulded into or on to both sidewalls, and at least on one side on the lower sidewall, as follows: 3.4.1. in the case of symmetrical tyres, all the markings referred to above must be located on both ridewalls except the markings referred to in sections 3.1.9, 3.1.11 and 3.3 which may be on one sidewall only; 3.4.2. in the case of asymmetrical tyres all the markings must be located on at least the outer sidewall. (4.)
(5.)
(6.)
6.1. Dimensional requirements
6.1.1. Section width of a tyre
6.1.1.1. Except as provided by section 6.1.1.2, the section width is calculated by the following formula: S = S1 + K (A−A1),
where: S
=
the 'section width' expressed in mm (
13
) and measured on the measuring rim; S1
=
the 'nominal section width' in mm as shown on the sidewall of the tyre in the tyre-size designation as prescribed; A
=
the width (expressed in mm) of the measuring rim, as shown by the manufacturer in the descriptive note, (see section 6.11 of Annex I, Appendix 1);
A1
=
the width (expressed in mm) of the theoretical rim; it is taken to equal S1 multiplied by the factor x as specified by the tyre manufacturer (see section 6.15 of Annex I, Appendix 1); and K is taken to equal 0.4. 6.1.1.2. However, for the types of tyre for which the size designation is given in the first column of the tables in Appendix 5 A or 5 B, the measuring rim width (A) and the section width (S) are those given opposite the tyre size designation in those tables. 6.1.2. Outer diameter of a tyre
6.1.2.1. Except as provided by secton 6.1.2.2, the outer diameter of a tyre is calculated by the following formula: D = d + 0,02H
where: — D is the outer diameter expressed in mm,
— d is the conventional number defined in section 2.17.1.3, expressed in mm,
— H is the nominal section heigth in mm and is equal to S1 × 0,01 Ra; where:
The said authorities shall take the same measure if they are informed by the approval authorities of another Member State of such failure to conform. 3. The approval authorities of the Member States shall within one month notify each other using the relevant form shown in the Appendices to Annex I and Annex III of any withdrawal of EEC type-approval and of the reasons for such a measure. Article 9Any decision taken pursuant to the provisions adopted in implementation of this Directive to refuse or withdraw EEC component type-approval for a tyre or EEC type-approval of a vehicle with regard to the fitting of its tyres implying a prohibition of marketing or of use shall set out in detail the reasons on which it is based. Every such decision shall be notified to the party concerned, who shall at the same time be informed of the remedies available to him under the laws in force in the Member States and of the time limits allowed for the exercise of such remedies. Article 10Any amendments necessary to adapt the requirements of the Annexes to technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13 of Directive 70/156/EEC. Article 111. Member States shall adopt and publish the provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 1 July 1992 and shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof. When the Member States adopt these measures, they shall contain a reference to this Directive or shall be accompanied by such a reference on the occasion of their official publication. The methods of making such a reference shall be laid down by the Member States. They shall apply these measures from 1 January 1993. 2. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the texts of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive. Article 12This Directive is addressed to the Member States. Done at Brussels, 31 March 1992. For the CouncilThe PresidentVitor MARTINS(1) OJ N° C 95, 12. 4. 1990, p. 101. (2) OJ N° C 284, 12. 11. 1990, p. 81 and Decision of 12. 2. 1992 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) OJ N° C 225, 10. 9. 1990, p. 9. (4) OJ N° L 42, 23. 2. 1970, p. 1. (5) OJ N° L 220, 8. 8. 1987, p. 44. (6) Economic Commission for Europe document E/ECE/324 (E3/ECE/TRANS/505) REV 1 - ADD 29, 1. 4. 1975 and its amendments 01, 02 and supplements. (7) Economic Commission for Europe document E/ECE/324 (E/ECE/TRANS/505) REV 1 - ADD 53 and supplements. (8) Economic Commission for Europe document E/ECE/324 (E/ECE/TRANS/505) REV 1 - ADD 63 and supplements.
5.3. In the case where tyre-size designations or trade marks are added to a range of tyres type-approved pursuant to Annex V, any requirement for retesting shall be determined by the type approval authority. 5.4. In the case of modification of the tyre tread pattern of a range of tyres approved pursuant to Annex V, a representative set of samples shall be retested unless the type approval authority is satisfied that the modification does not affect the tyre/road noise emissions. 6. CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION
6.1. The general rules to ensure the conformity of production shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions laid down in Article 10 of Directive 70/156/EEC. {{IMAGE:Image_1, Caption:Information document template for EC type-approval of tyres, detailing general manufacturer information and specific technical tyre specifications.}} {{IMAGE:Image_2, Caption:Model EC type-approval certificate form for tyres under Directive 92/23/EEC, featuring Section I for general manufacturer and component details.}} {{IMAGE:Image_3, Caption:Section II of a regulatory form detailing additional information requirements for tyre component type-approval, including rim lists, test reports, and administrative details.}} {{IMAGE:Image_4, Caption:Information Document template for EC type-approval of tyres regarding tyre/road noise emission, referencing Annex V to Directive 92/23/EEC.}} {{IMAGE:Image_5, Caption:Model EC Type-Approval Certificate form for tyre/road noise emission, detailing required administrative and technical information.}} ▼B
ANNEX IIREQUIREMENTS FOR TYRES1. DEFINITIONS
2. For the purposes of this Directive: 2.1. 'type of tyre' means a category of tyres which do not differ in such essential respects as: 2.1.1. manufacturer's name or trade mark; 2.1.2. tyre-size designation; 2.1.3. category of use: normal
:
normal road-use tyre,
special
:
special-use tyre, e.g. tyre for mixed use (both on and off the road) and at restricted speed,
— snow tyre,
— temporary-use spare tyre; 2.1.4. structure (diagonal (bias-ply), bias-belted, radial-ply); 2.1.5. speed category; 2.1.6. load capacity index; 2.1.7. tyre cross-section; 2.2. 'snow tyre' means a tyre the tread pattern and structure of which are primarily designed to ensure in mud and fresh or melting snow a performance better than that of a normal tyre. The tread pattern of a snow tyre generally consists of groove (rib) and/or solid-block elements more widely spaced than on a normal tyre; 2.3. 'structure' of a tyre means the technical characteristics of the tyre's carcass. The following structures are distinguished in particular: 2.3.1. 'diagonal' or 'bias-ply' describes a tyre structure in which the ply cords extend to the bead and are laid at alternate angles of substantially less than 90o to the centreline of the tread; 2.3.2. 'bias-belted' describes a tyre structure of diagonal (bias-ply) type in which the carcass is restricted by a belt comprising two or more layers of substantially inextensible cord material laid at alternate angles close to those of the carcass; 2.3.3. 'radial' describes a tyre structure in which the ply cords extend to the beads and are laid substantially at 90o to the centreline of the tread, the carcass being stabilized by an essentially inextensible circumferential belt; 2.3.4. 'reinforce' describes a tyre structure in which the carcass is more resistant than that of the corresponding standard tyre; 2.3.5. 'temporary-use spare tyre' means a tyre different from a tyre intended to be fitted to any vehicle for normal driving conditions; but intended only for temporary use under restricted driving conditions; 2.3.6. 'T-type temporary-use spare tyre' means a type of temporary-use spare tyre designed for use at inflation pressure higher than those established for standard and reinforced tyres; 2.4. 'bead' means the part of a tyre which is of such shape and structure as to fit the rim and hold the tyre on it (
10
);
2.5. 'cord' means the strands forming the fabric of the plies in the tyre (10) ;
2.6. 'ply' means a layer of rubber-coated parallel cords (10) ;
2.7. 'carcass' means that part of a tyre other than the tread and the rubber sidewalls which, when inflated, bears the load (10) ;
2.8. 'tread' means that part of a tyre which comes into contact with the ground (
11
);
2.9. 'sidewall' means the part of the tyre, excluding the tread, which is visible when the tyre, fitted to a rim, is viewed from the side (11) ;
2.10. 'lower sidewall' means the area below the line of maximum section width of the tyre, which is visible when the tyre, fitted to a rim, is viewed from the side (11) ;
2.11. 'tread groove' means the space between the adjacent ribs or blocks in the tread pattern (11) ;
2.12. 'section width' means the linear distance between the outsides of the sidewalls of an inflated tyre, excluding elevations due to labelling (marking), decoration or protective bands or ribs (11) ;
2.13. 'overall width' means the linear distance between the outsides of the sidewalls of an inflated tyre, including labelling (marking), decoration and protective bands or ribs (11) ;
2.14. 'section height' means a distance equal to half the difference between the outer diameter of the tyre and the nominal rim diameter (11) ;
2.15. 'nominal aspect ratio Ra' means one hundred times the number obtained by dividing the number expressing the nominal section height in millimetres by the number expressing the nominal section width in millimeters; 2.16. 'outer diameter' means the overall diameter of an inflated new tyre (11) ;
2.17. 'tyre-size designation': 2.17.1. means a designation showing: 2.17.1.1. the nominal secton width. This width must be expressed in mm, except in the case of tyres for which the size designation is shown in the first column of the tables in Appendix 5;
2.17.1.2. the nominal aspect ratio, except in the case of tyres for which the size designation is shown in the first column of the tables in Appendix 5;
2.17.1.3. a conventional number 'd' (the 'd' symbol) denoting the nominal rim diameter and corresponding to the diameter of the rim expressed either in inches (number below 100 — see table) or in mm (numbers above 100) but not both. 'd'Nominal rim diameter (the symbol)
Expressed in inches
(code)
Equivalence in mm
(reference section 6.1.2.1)
10
254
11
279
12
305
13
330
14
356
15
381
16
406
17
432
18
457
19
483
20
508
21
533
22
559
24
610
25
635
14,5 
368
16,5 
419
17,5 
445
19,5 
495
20,5 
521
22,5 
572
24,5 
622
2.17.1.4. the letter 'T' in front of the nominal section width in case of T-type temporary-use spare tyres; 2.18. 'nominal rim diameter (d)' means the diameter of the rim on which a tyre is designed to be mounted (
12
);
2.19. 'rim' means the support for a tyre-and-tube assembly, or for a tubeless tyre, on which the tyre beads are seated (12) ;
2.20. 'theoretical rim' means the notional rim whose width would be equal to x times the nominal section width of a tyre; the value 'x' must be specified by the tyre manufacturer; 2.21. 'measuring rim' means the rim on which a tyre must be fitted for size measurements; 2.22. 'test rim' means the rim on which a tyre must be fitted for testing; 2.23. 'chunking' means the breaking away of pieces of rubber from the tread; 2.24. 'cord separation' means the parting of the cords from their rubber coating; 2.25. 'ply separation' means the parting of adjacent plies; 2.26. 'tread separation' means the pulling away of the tread from the carcass; 2.27. 'tread-wear indicators' mean projections within the tread-grooves designed to give a visual indication of the degree of wear of the tread; 2.28. 'load-capacity index' means one or two numbers which indicate the load the tyre can carry in single or in single and dual formation at the speed corresponding to the associated speed category and when operated in conformity with the requirements governing utilization specified by the manufacturer.
'load-capacity index' means one or two numbers which indicate the load the tyre can carry in single or in single and dual formation at the speed corresponding to the associated speed category and when operated in conformity with the requirements governing utilization specified by the manufacturer. The list of these indices and their corresponding masses is given in Annex II, Appendix 2;
2.28.1. on passenger car tyres there must be one load index only; 2.28.2. on commercial vehicle tyres there may be one or two load indices, the first one for single formation and the second one, when present, for dual (twin) formation in which case the two indices are divided by a slash (/);
2.28.3. a type of tyre may have either one or two sets of load capacity indices depending on whether or not the provisions of section 6.2.5 are applied; 2.29. 'speed category', expressed by the speed category symbol as shown in the table in 2.29.3;
2.29.1. in the case of a passenger car tyre, the maximum speed which the tyre can sustain; 2.29.2. in the case of a commercial vehicle tyre, the speed at which the tyre can carry the mass corresponding to the load capacity index; 2.29.3. The speed categories are as shown in the table below: Speed category symbol
Corresponding speed
(km/h)
F
80
G
90
J
100
K
110
L
120
M
130
N
140
P
150
Q
160
R
170
S
180
T
190
U
200
H
210
V
240
2.29.4. tyres suitable for maximum speeds higher than 240 km/h are identified by means of the letter code 'Z' placed within the tyre size designation; 2.29.5. a type of tyre may have either one or two sets of speed category symbols depending on whether or not the provisions of section 6.2.5 are applied; 2.30. 'table: Variation of load capacity with speed' means: the table, in Annex II Appendix 8, showing as a function of the load capacity indices and nominal speed category symbols the load variations which a tyre can withstand when used at speeds different from that corresponding to its speed category symbol; 2.30.1. the load variations do not apply in the case of passenger car tyres nor, in the case of commercial vehicle tyres, to the additional load capacity indices and speed category symbol when the provisions of section 6.2.5 are applied; 2.31. 'maximum load rating' means the maximum mass the tyre is rated to carry: 2.31.1. in the case of passenger car tyres suitable for speeds not exceeding 210 km/h, the maximum load rating must not exceed the value associated with the load capacity index of the tyre; 2.31.2. in the case of passenger car tyres suitable for speeds exceeding 210 km/h, but not exceeding 240 km/h (tyres classified with speed category symbol 'V'), the maximum load rating must not exceed the percentage of the value associated with the load capacity index of the tyre, indicated in the table below, with reference to the speed capability of the vehicle to which the tyre is fitted; Maximum speed
(km/h)
Load
(%)
215
98,5 
220
97
225
95,5 
230
94
235
92,5 
240
91
for intermediate maximum speeds linear interpolations of the maximum load rating are allowed; 2.31.3. for speeds exceeding 240 km/h ('Z tyres') the maximum load rating must not exceed the value specified by the tyre manufacturer with reference to the maximum speed capability of the vehicle to which it is fitted; 2.31.4. in the case of commercial vehicle tyres, the maximum load rating, both for single and for dual formation, must not exceed the percentage of the value associated with the relevant load capacity index of the tyre as indicated in the table 'Load-capacity variation with speed' (see 2.30), with reference to the speed category symbol of the tyre and the speed capability of the vehicle to which the tyre is fitted. When additional load capacity indices and speed category symbols apply, those too are considered to determine the maximum load rating of the tyre; 2.32. 'passenger car tyre' means a tyre designed primarily, but not only, for passenger cars (motor vehicles in category M1) and their trailers (01 and 02); 2.33. 'commercial vehicle tyre' means a tyre designed primarily, but not only, for vehicles other than passenger cars (motor vehicles in categories M2, M3, N) and their trailers (03, 04); 2.34. 'tyre ground pressure (F/Ac)' means the average until load transmitted by the tyre, through its contact area, to the road surface expressed as the ratio between the vertical force (F), in static conditions on the axis of the wheel and the tyre contact area (Ac) measured with the tyre inflated at the cold inflation pressure recommended for the intended type of service. It is expressed in kN/m2; 2.35. 'tyre contact area (Ac)' means the area of the flat surface contained within the virtual perimeter of the tyre footprint. It is expressed in m2; 2.36. 'virtual perimeter of the tyre footprint' means the convex polygonal curve circumscribing the smallest area containing all points of contact between the tyre and the ground; 2.37. 'cold inflation pressure' means the internal pressure of the tyre with the tyre at ambient temperature and does not include any pressure build up due to tyre usage. It is expressed in bar kPa. 3. MARKING REQUIREMENTS
3.1. Tyres must bear: 3.1.1. the manufacturer's name or trade mark; 3.1.2. the tyre-size designation as defined in section 2.17; 3.1.3. an indication of the structure as follows: 3.1.3.1. on diagonal (bias-ply) tyres, no making or the letter 'D';
3.1.3.2. on radial-ply tyres, the letter 'R' placed in front of the nominal in diameter marking and, optionally, the word 'RADIAL'; 3.1.3.3. on bias-belted tyres, the letter 'B' placed in front of the nominal rim diameter marking and, in addition, the words 'BIAS-BELTED'; 3.1.4. an indication of the tyre's speed category by means of the symbol shown in section 2.29; in the case of tyres suitable for speeds higher than 240 km/h the speed category of the tyre must be indicated by the letter code 'Z' placed in front of the indication of the structure (see section 3.1.3);
3.1.5. the inscription 'M + S' (for alternatively 'M.S.' or 'M & S') in the case of a snow tyre; 3.1.6. the load-capacity index as defined in section 2.28; 3.1.6.1. however, in the case of tyres suitable for speeds higher than 240 km/h the indication of the load capacity index may be omitted; 3.1.7. the word 'TUBELESS' if the tyre is designed for use without an inner tube; 3.1.8. the word 'REINFORCED' if the tyre is a reinforced tyre; 3.1.9. the date of manufacture in the form of a group of three digits, the first two showing the week and the last one the year of manufacture; 3.1.10. in the case of commercial vehicle tyres which can be regrooved, the symbol ' {{IMAGE:Image_6, Caption:The symbol Ω (Greek capital letter Omega) used to indicate that a commercial vehicle tyre is regroovable.}} ' at last 20 mm in diameter, or the word 'REGROOVABLE', moulded into or on to each sidewall; 3.1.11. in the case of commercial vehicles tyres, an indication, by the 'PSI' index (see Appendix 4), of the inflation pressure to be adopted for the load/speed tests, as explained in Appendic 7 Part B;
3.1.12. the additional load capacity index/indices and the speed category symbol in the case where the provisions of section 6.2.5 are applied. 3.2. Appendix 3 gives examples of the arrangement of tyre markings. 3.3. The tyre must also bear the 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ mark, the model of which is given in Annex I, section 4.5. POSITION OF MARKINGS
3.4. The markings referred to in section 3.1 and 3.3 must be clearly and legibly moulded into or on to both sidewalls, and at least on one side on the lower sidewall, as follows: 3.4.1. in the case of symmetrical tyres, all the markings referred to above must be located on both ridewalls except the markings referred to in sections 3.1.9, 3.1.11 and 3.3 which may be on one sidewall only; 3.4.2. in the case of asymmetrical tyres all the markings must be located on at least the outer sidewall.
where: — Ra is the nominal aspect ratio,
all as shown on the sidewall of the tyre in the tyre-size designation in conformity with the requirements of section 3. 6.1.2.2. However, for the types of tyres for which the size designation is given in the first column of the tables of Appendix 5 the outer diameter is that given opposite the tyre size designation in those tables. 6.1.3. Method of measuring tyre dimensions
The actual dimensions of tyres are measured as prescribed in Appendix 6. 6.1.4. Tyre section width: specification of tolerance
6.1.4.1. The overall width of a tyre may be less than the section width determined pursuant to section 6.1.1 or shown in Appendix 5;
6.1.4.2. It may not exceed that value by more than the following: 6.1.4.2.1. diagonal (bias-ply) tyres: 6 % for passenger car tyres, 8 % for commercial vehicle tyres; 6.1.4.2.2. radial-ply tyres: 4 %; and
6.1.4.2.3. in addition, if the tyre has a special protective band, the figure as increased by the above tolerances may be exceeded by 8 mm. 6.1.4.2.4. However, for tyres of a section width exceeding 305 mm intended for dual (twin) mounting the nominal value must not be exceeded by more than 2 % for radial-ply or 4 % for diagonal (bias-ply) tyres. 6.1.5. Tyre outer diameter: specification of tolerance
The outer diameter of a tyre must not be outside the values Dmin and Dmax obtained from the following formulae: Dmin
=
d + (2H × a)
Dmax
=
d + (2H × b)
6.1.5.1. for sizes listed in Appendix 5:
H = 0,5 (D — d) — (for references see section 6.1.2.2). 6.1.5.2. for other sizes not listed in Appendix 5:
'H' and 'd' are as defined in section 6.1.2.1. 6.1.5.3. coefficients 'a' and 'b' are respectively:

| Category of use | Passenger car tyres | Passenger car tyres | Commercial vehicle tyres | Commercial vehicle tyres |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Category of use | Radial | Bias | Radial | Bias |
| Normal | 104 | 108 | 104 | 107 |
| Special | — | — | 106 | 109 |
| Snow | 104 | 108 | 104 | 107 |
| Temporary-use | 104 | 108 | — | — | 6.1.5.4. For snow tyres the outer diameter (Dmax) established in conformity with the above may be exceeded by 1 %.
6.2. Load/speed test requirement
6.2.1. The tyre must undergo a load/speed test carried out in accordance with the relevant procedure described in Appendix 7. 6.2.2. A tyre which, after undergoing the relevant load/speed test, does not exhibit any tread separation, ply separation, cord separation, chunking or broken cords is deemed to have passed the test. 6.2.3. The outer diameter of the tyre, measured six hours after the load/speed test, must not be more than 3,5 % greater than the outer diameter as measured before the test. 6.2.4. Where application is made for the approval of a type of commercial vehicle tyre the load/speed combinations given in the table in Appendix 8 apply and, the load/speed test prescribed in section 6.2.1 need not be carried out for load and speed values other than the nominal values. 6.2.5. Where application (see secton 6.13 of Annex 1, Appendix 1) is made for the type-approval of a type of commercial vehicle tyre which has a load/speed combination in addition to the one that is subject to the variation of load with speed given in the table in Appendix 8, the load/speed test prescribed in section 6.2.1 must also be carried out on a second tyre of the same type at the additional load/speed combination. 6.2.6. Where a tyre manufacturer produces a range of tyres it is not considered necessary to carry out a load/speed test on every type of tyre in the range. Worst-case selection may be made, at the discretion of the approval authority. 6.3. Tread-wear indicators
6.3.1. In the case of passenger car tyres the tread of the tyre must include not less than six transverse rows of tread-wear indicators, approximately equally spaced and situated in the wide grooves in the central zone of the tread, which covers approximately three quarters of the tread width. The tread-wear indicators must be such that they cannot be confused with the rubber ridges between the ribs or blocks of the tread. 6.3.2. However, in the case of tyres of dimensions appropriate for mounting on rims of a nominal diamter of 12″ or less, four rows of tread-wear indicators are acceptable. 6.3.3. The tread-wear indicators must give visual warning when the depth of the corresponding tread grooves has been reduced to 1,6 mm with a tolerance of + 0,6/- 0 mm.

| LI | Maximum |
|---|---|
| 0 | 45 |
| 1 | 462 |
| 2 | 475 |
| 3 | 487 |
| 4 | 50 |
| 5 | 515 |
| 6 | 53 |
| 7 | 545 |
| 8 | 56 |
| 9 | 58 |
| 10 | 60 |
| 11 | 615 |
| 12 | 63 |
| 13 | 65 |
| 14 | 67 |
| 15 | 69 |
| 16 | 71 |
| 17 | 73 |
| 18 | 75 |
| 19 | 775 |
| 20 | 80 |
| 21 | 825 |
| 22 | 85 |
| 23 | 875 |
| 24 | 90 |
| 25 | 925 |
| 26 | 95 |
| 27 | 975 |
| 28 | 100 |
| 29 | 103 |
| 30 | 106 |
| 31 | 109 |
| 32 | 112 |
| 33 | 115 |
| 34 | 118 |
| 35 | 121 |
| 36 | 125 |
| 37 | 128 |
| 38 | 132 |
| 39 | 136 |
| 40 | 140 |
| 41 | 145 |
| 42 | 150 |
| 43 | 155 |
| 44 | 160 |
| 45 | 165 |
| 46 | 170 |
| 47 | 175 |
| 48 | 180 |
| 49 | 185 |
| 50 | 190 |
| 51 | 195 |
| 52 | 200 |
| 53 | 206 |
| 54 | 212 |
| 55 | 218 |
| 56 | 224 |
| 57 | 230 |
| 58 | 236 |
| 59 | 240 |
| 60 | 250 |
| 61 | 257 |
| 62 | 265 |
| 63 | 272 |
| 64 | 280 |
| 65 | 290 |
| 66 | 300 |
| 67 | 307 |
| 68 | 315 |
| 69 | 325 |
| 70 | 335 |
| 71 | 345 |
| 72 | 355 |
| 73 | 365 |
| 74 | 375 |
| 75 | 387 |
| 76 | 400 |
| 77 | 412 |
| 78 | 425 |
| 79 | 437 |
| 80 | 450 |
| 81 | 462 |
| 82 | 475 |
| 83 | 487 |
| 84 | 500 |
| 85 | 515 |
| 86 | 530 |
| 87 | 545 |
| 88 | 560 |
| 89 | 580 |
| 90 | 600 |
| 91 | 615 |
| 92 | 630 |
| 93 | 650 |
| 94 | 670 |
| 95 | 690 |
| 96 | 710 |
| 97 | 730 |
| 98 | 750 |
| 99 | 775 |
| 100 | 800 |
| 101 | 825 |
| 102 | 850 |
| 103 | 875 |
| 104 | 900 |
| 105 | 925 |
| 106 | 950 |
| 107 | 975 |
| 108 | 1 000 |
| 109 | 1 030 |
| 110 | 1 060 |
| 111 | 1 090 |
| 112 | 1 120 |
| 113 | 1 150 |
| 114 | 1 180 |
| 115 | 1 215 |
| 116 | 1 250 |
| 117 | 1 285 |
| 118 | 1 320 |
| 119 | 1 360 |
| 120 | 1 400 |
| 121 | 1 450 |
| 122 | 1 500 |
| 123 | 1 550 |
| 124 | 1 600 |
| 125 | 1 650 |
| 126 | 1 700 |
| 127 | 1 750 |
| 128 | 1 800 |
| 129 | 1 850 |
| 130 | 1 900 |
| 131 | 1 950 |
| 132 | 2 000 |
| 133 | 2 060 |
| 134 | 2 120 |
| 135 | 2 180 |
| 136 | 2 240 |
| 137 | 2 300 |
| 138 | 2 360 |
| 139 | 2 430 |
| 140 | 2 500 |
| 141 | 2 575 |
| 142 | 2 650 |
| 143 | 2 725 |
| 144 | 2 800 |
| 145 | 2 900 |
| 146 | 3 000 |
| 147 | 3 075 |
| 148 | 3 150 |
| 149 | 3 250 |
| 150 | 3 350 |
| 151 | 3 450 |
| 152 | 3 550 |
| 153 | 3 650 |
| 154 | 3 750 |
| 155 | 3 875 |
| 156 | 4 000 |
| 157 | 4 125 |
| 158 | 4 250 |
| 159 | 4 375 |
| 160 | 4 500 |
| 161 | 4 625 |
| 162 | 4 750 |
| 163 | 4 875 |
| 164 | 5 000 |
| 165 | 5 150 |
| 166 | 5 300 |
| 167 | 5 450 |
| 168 | 5 600 |
| 169 | 5 800 |
| 170 | 6 000 |
| 171 | 6 150 |
| 172 | 6 300 |
| 173 | 6 500 |
| 174 | 6 700 |
| 175 | 6 900 |
| 176 | 7 100 |
| 177 | 7 300 |
| 178 | 7 500 |
| 179 | 7 750 |
| 180 | 8 000 |
| 181 | 8 250 |
| 182 | 8 500 |
| 183 | 8 750 |
| 184 | 9 000 |
| 185 | 9 250 |
| 186 | 9 500 |
| 187 | 9 750 |
| 188 | 10 000 |
| 189 | 10 300 |
| 190 | 10 600 |
| 191 | 10 900 |
| 192 | 11 200 |
| 193 | 11 500 |
| 194 | 11 800 |
| 195 | 12 150 |
| 196 | 12 500 |
| 197 | 12 850 |
| 198 | 13 200 |
| 199 | 13 600 |
| 200 | 14 000 |

Appendix 3
PART B: COMMERCIAL VEHICLE TYRES
ARRANGEMENT OF TYRE MARKINGS
(see Annex II, section 3.2)
Example of the markings to be borne by types of tyres placed on the market after notification of this Directive
These markings define a tyre: — having a nominal section width of 185,
— having a nominal aspect ratio of 70,
— of radial-ply structure (R),
— having a nominal rim diameter of 14,
— having a load capacity of 580 kg, corresponding to load index 89 in Appendix 2,
— classified in the speed category T (maximum speed 190 km/h),
— for fitting without an inner tube ('tubeless'),
— of 'snow' type,
— manufactured during the twenty-fifth week of the year 1993.
Tyres with special fitting requirements shall be tested in accordance with these requirements (e.g. rotation direction). The tyres must have full tread depth before being run-in.Tyres are to be tested on rims permitted by the tyre manufacturer.The test load Qt for each tyre on the test vehicle shall be 50 % to 90 % of the reference load Qr, but the average test load Qt,avr of all tyres shall be 75 % ± 5 % of the reference load Qr.For all tyres the reference load Qr corresponds to the maximum mass associated with the load capacity index of the tyre. In the case where the load capacity index is constituted by two numbers divided by slash (/), reference shall be made to the first number.Each tyre fitted on the test vehicle shall have a test pressure Pt not higher than the reference pressure Pr and within the interval: where Pr is the pressure corresponding to the pressure index marked on the sidewall.For Class C1 the reference pressure is Pr = 250 kPa for 'standard' tyres and 290 kPa for 'reinforced' tyres, the minimum test pressure shall be Pt = 150 kPa.The tyres should be 'run-in' prior to testing to remove compound nodules or other tyre pattern characteristics resulting from the moulding process. This will normally require the equivalent of about 100 km of normal use on the road.The tyres fitted to the test vehicle shall rotate in the same direction as when they were run-in.Prior to testing tyres shall be warmed up by running under test conditions.For all measurements the vehicle must be driven in a straight line over the measuring section (AA′ to BB′) in such a way that the median longitudinal plane of the vehicle is as close as possible to the line CC′.When the front end of the test vehicle has reached the line AA′, the vehicle's driver must have put the gear selector on neutral position and switched off the engine. If abnormal noise (e.g. ventilator, self-ignition) is emitted by the test vehicle during the measurement, the test must be repeated.The maximum sound level expressed in A-weighted decibels (dB(A)) shall be measured to the first decimal place as the vehicle is coasting between lines AA′ and BB′ (figure 1 — front end of the vehicle on line AA′, rear end of the vehicle on line BB'). This value will constitute the result of the measurement.At least four measurements shall be made on each side of the test vehicle at test speeds lower than the reference speed specified in paragraph 4.1. and at least four measurements at test speeds higher than the reference speed. The speeds shall be approximately equally spaced over the speed range specified in paragraph 3.3.The test vehicle speeds shall be within the range: (i) from 70 km/h to 90 km/h for Class C1 and Class C2 tyres; (ii) from 60 km/h to 80 km/h for Class C3 tyres. The measurement shall be invalid if an abnormal discrepancy between the maximum value and the other values is recorded.Reference speed Vref used to determine the final result will be: (i) 80 km/h for Class C1 and Class C2 tyres; (ii) 70 km/h for Class C3 tyres. The (not temperature corrected) tyre-road noise level LR in dB(A) is determined by a regression analysis according to: where: is the mean value of the noise levels Li, measured in dB(A): n is the measurement number (n ≥ 16),
 is the mean value of logarithms of speeds vi: With
a is the slope of the regression line in dB(A):
For Class C2 tyres, the final result shall be normalised to a test surface reference temperature href by applying a temperature correction, according to the following: where θ is the measured test surface temperature,
For Class C1 tyres, the coefficient K is - 0,03 dB(A)/oC when θ > θref and K is - 0,06 dB(A)/oC when θ < θref.For Class C2 tyres, the coefficient K is - 0,02 dB(A)/oCIf the measured test surface temperature does not change by more than 5 oC within all measurements necessary for the determination of the sound level of one set of tyres, the temperature correction may be made only on the final reported tyre-road sound level as indicated above, utilizing the arithmetic mean value of the measured temperatures. Otherwise each measured sound level Li shall be corrected, utilizing the temperature at the time of the sound recording.There will be no temperature correction for Class C3 tyres. 4.4. In order to take account of any measuring instrument inaccuracies, the results according to section 4.3. shall be reduced by 1 dB(A). 4.5. The final result, the temperature corrected tyre-road noise level LR(θref) in dB(A), shall be rounded down to the nearest lower whole value. Figure 1: Microphone Positions for the Measurement
Appendix 2
TEST REPORTThe test report shall include the following information: (a) meteorological conditions inclusive of air and test surface temperature for each test run,
(b) date and method of check on compliance of the test surface with ISO 10844:1994,
(c) test rim width,
(d) tyre data: manufacturer, brand name, trade name, size, load index, reference pressure,
(e) test vehicle description and wheelbase,
(f) type test load Qt in N and in per cent of the reference load Qr for each test tyre, average test load Qt,avr in N and in per cent of the reference load Qr,
(g) cold inflation pressure in kPa for each test tyre,
(h) test speeds when the vehicle passed line PP′,
(i) maximum A-weighted sound levels for each test run and each microphone,
(j) the test result LR: A-weighted sound level in decibel at reference speed, corrected for temperature (if applicable), rounded down to the nearest lower whole value. (k) regression line slope.
— having a nominal section width of 185,
— having a nominal aspect ratio of 70,
— of radial-ply structure (R),
— having a nominal rim diameter of 14,
— having a load capacity of 580 kg, corresponding to load index 89 in Appendix 2,
— classified in the speed category T (maximum speed 190 km/h),
— for fitting without an inner tube ('tubeless'),
— of 'snow' type,
— manufactured during the twenty-fifth week of the year 1993. The positioning and order of the markings constituting the tyre designation are as follows: (a) the size designation, comprising the nominal section width, the nominal aspect ratio, the type of structure symbol (where applicable) and the nominal rim diameter, must be grouped as shown in the above example: 185/70 R 14; (b) the load index and the speed category symbol are placed near the size designation. They may either precede or follow it or be placed above or below it; (c) the symbols 'tubeless', 'reinforced', and 'M + S' may be at a distance from the size designation. These markings define a tyre: — having a nominal section width of 250,
— having a nominal aspect ratio of 70,
— of racial-ply structure (R),
— having a nominal rim diameter of 508 mm, for which the symbol is 20,
— having load capacities of 3 250 kg when single and 2 900 kg when twinned (dual), corresponding respectively to the load capacity indices 149 and 145 shown in Appendix 2,
— classified in the nominal speed category J (reference speed 100 km/h),
— able to be used additionally in speed category L (reference speed 120 km/h) with a load capacity of 3 000 kg when single and 2 725 kg when twinned (dual), corresponding respectively to the load capacity indices 146 and 143 shown in Appendix 2,
— for fitting without an inner tube 'tubeless',
— of 'snow' type,
— manufactured during the twenty-fifth week of the year 1991, and
— requiring to be inflated to 620 kPa for load/speed endurance tests, for which the PSI symbol is 90. The positioning and order of the markings constituting the tyre designation are as follows: (a) the size designation, comprising the nominal section width, the nominal aspect ratio, the type-of-structure symbol (where applicable) and the nominal rim diameter, must be grouped as shown in the above example: 250/70 R 20; (b) the load indices and the speed category symbol are placed together near the size designation. They may either precede or follow it or be placed above or below it; (c) the symbols 'Tubeless', 'M + S' and 'REGROOVABLE' may be at a distance from the size designation; (d) if section 6.2.5 of Annex II is applied the additional load-capacity indices and speed-category symbol must be shown inside a circle near the nominal load-capacity indices and speed category symbol appearing on the tyre sidewall.

| Pressure Index ('PSI') | bar | kPa |
|---|---|---|
| 20 | 1.4 | 140 |
| 25 | 1.7 | 170 |
| 30 | 2.1 | 210 |
| 35 | 2.4 | 240 |
| 40 | 2.8 | 280 |
| 45 | 3.1 | 310 |
| 50 | 3.4 | 340 |
| 55 | 3.8 | 380 |
| 60 | 4.2 | 420 |
| 65 | 4.5 | 450 |
| 70 | 4.8 | 480 |
| 75 | 5.2 | 520 |
| 80 | 5.5 | 550 |
| 85 | 5.9 | 590 |
| 90 | 6.2 | 620 |
| 95 | 6.6 | 660 |
| 100 | 6.9 | 690 |
| 105 | 7.2 | 720 |
| 110 | 7.6 | 760 |
| 115 | 7.9 | 790 |
| 120 | 8.3 | 830 |
| 125 | 8.6 | 860 |
| 130 | 9.0 | 900 |
| 135 | 9.3 | 930 |
| 140 | 9.7 | 970 |
| 145 | 10.0 | 1 000 |
| 150 | 10.3 | 1 030 |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring rim width (inches) | Outer diameter (1) (in mm) | Section width (1) (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| Super balloon series | Super balloon series | Super balloon series | Super balloon series |
| 4.80-10 | 3.5 | 490 | 128 |
| 5.20-10 | 3.5 | 508 | 132 |
| 5.20-12 | 3.5 | 558 | 132 |
| 5.60-13 | 4 | 600 | 145 |
| 5.90-13 | 4 | 616 | 150 |
| 6.40-13 | 4.5 | 642 | 163 |
| 5.20-14 | 3.5 | 612 | 132 |
| 5.60-14 | 4 | 626 | 145 |
| 5.90-14 | 4 | 642 | 150 |
| 6.40-14 | 4.5 | 666 | 163 |
| 5.60-15 | 4 | 650 | 145 |
| 5.90-15 | 4 | 668 | 150 |
| 6.40-15 | 4.5 | 692 | 163 |
| 6.70-15 | 4.5 | 710 | 170 |
| 7.10-15 | 5 | 724 | 180 |
| 7.60-15 | 5.5 | 742 | 193 |
| 8.20-15 | 6 | 760 | 213 |
| Low section series | Low section series | Low section series | Low section series |
| 5.50-12 | 4 | 552 | 142 |
| 6.00-12 | 4.5 | 574 | 156 |
| 7.00-13 | 5 | 644 | 178 |
| 7.00-14 | 5 | 668 | 178 |
| 7.50-14 | 5.5 | 688 | 190 |
| 8.00-14 | 6 | 702 | 203 |
| 6.00-15 L | 4.5 | 650 | 156 |
| Super low section series (2) | Super low section series (2) | Super low section series (2) | Super low section series (2) |
| 155-13/6.15-13 | 4.5 | 582 | 157 |
| 165-13/6.45-13 | 4.5 | 600 | 167 |
| 175-13/6.95-13 | 5 | 610 | 178 |
| 155-14/6.15-14 | 4.5 | 608 | 157 |
| 165-14/6.45-14 | 4.5 | 626 | 167 |
| 175-14/6.95-14 | 5 | 638 | 178 |
| 185-14/7.35-14 | 5.5 | 654 | 188 |
| 195-14/7.75-14 | 5.5 | 670 | 198 |
| Ultra low section | Ultra low section | Ultra low section | Ultra low section |
| 5.9-10 | 4.5 | 483 | 148 |
| 6.5-13 | 4.5 | 586 | 166 |
| 6.9-13 | 4.5 | 600 | 172 |
| 7.3-13 | 5 | 614 | 184 |
| (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. (2) The following size designations are accepted: 185-14/7.35-14 or 185-14 or 7.35-14 or 7.35-14/185-14. | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. (2) The following size designations are accepted: 185-14/7.35-14 or 185-14 or 7.35-14 or 7.35-14/185-14. | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. (2) The following size designations are accepted: 185-14/7.35-14 or 185-14 or 7.35-14 or 7.35-14/185-14. | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. (2) The following size designations are accepted: 185-14/7.35-14 or 185-14 or 7.35-14 or 7.35-14/185-14. |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring rim width (inches) | Outer diameter (1) (in mm) | Section width (1) (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 5.60 R 13 | 4 | 606 | 145 |
| 5.90 R 13 | 4.5 | 626 | 155 |
| 6.40 R 13 | 4.5 | 640 | 170 |
| 7.00 R 13 | 5 | 644 | 178 |
| 7.25 R 13 | 5 | 654 | 184 |
| 5.90 R 14 | 4.5 | 654 | 155 |
| 5.60 R 15 | 4 | 656 | 145 |
| 6.40 R 15 | 4.5 | 690 | 170 |
| 6.70 R 15 | 5 | 710 | 180 |
| 140 R 12 | 4 | 538 | 138 |
| 150 R 12 | 4 | 554 | 150 |
| 150 R 13 | 4 | 580 | 149 |
| 160 R 13 | 4.5 | 596 | 158 |
| 170 R 13 | 5 | 608 | 173 |
| 150 R 14 | 4 | 606 | 149 |
| 180 R 15 | 5 | 676 | 174 |
| (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. |

| Tyre size designation (2) | Measuring rim width (inches) | Outer diameter (1) (in mm) | Section width (1) (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 125 R 10 | 3.5 | 459 | 127 |
| 145 R 10 | 4 | 492 | 147 |
| 125 R 12 | 3.5 | 510 | 178 |
| 135 R 12 | 4 | 522 | 184 |
| 145 R 12 | 4 | 542 |  |
| 155 R 12 | 4.5 | 550 | 155 |
| 125 R 13 | 3.5 | 536 | 127 |
| 135 R 13 | 4 | 548 | 137 |
| 145 R 13 | 4 | 566 | 147 |
| 155 R 13 | 4.5 | 578 | 157 |
| 165 R 13 | 4.5 | 596 | 167 |
| 175 R 13 | 5 | 608 | 178 |
| 185 R 13 | 5.5 | 624 | 188 |
| 125 R 14 | 3.5 | 562 | 127 |
| 135 R 14 | 4 | 574 | 137 |
| 145 R 14 | 4 | 590 | 147 |
| 155 R 14 | 4.5 | 604 | 157 |
| 165 R 14 | 4.5 | 622 | 167 |
| 175 R 14 | 5 | 634 | 178 |
| 185 R 14 | 5.5 | 650 | 188 |
| 195 R 14 | 5.5 | 666 | 198 |
| 205 R 14 | 6 | 686 | 208 |
| 215 R 14 | 6 | 700 | 218 |
| 225 R 14 | 6.5 | 714 | 228 |
| 125 R 15 | 3.5 | 588 | 127 |
| 135 R 15 | 4 | 600 | 137 |
| 145 R 15 | 4 | 616 | 147 |
| 155 R 15 | 4.5 | 630 | 157 |
| 165 R 15 | 4.5 | 646 | 167 |
| 175 R 15 | 5 | 660 | 178 |
| 185 R 15 | 5.5 | 674 | 188 |
| 195 R 15 | 5.5 | 690 | 198 |
| 205 R 15 | 6 | 710 | 208 |
| 215 R 15 | 6 | 724 | 218 |
| 225 R 15 | 6.5 | 738 | 228 |
| 235 R 15 | 6.5 | 752 | 238 |
| 175 R 16 | 5 | 686 | 178 |
| 185 R 16 | 5.5 | 698 | 188 |
| 205 R 16 | 6 | 736 | 208 |
3.4.2. in the case of asymmetrical tyres all the markings must be located on at least the outer sidewall. (4.)
(5.)
(6.)
6.1. Dimensional requirements
6.1.1. Section width of a tyre
6.1.1.1. Except as provided by section 6.1.1.2, the section width is calculated by the following formula: S = S1 + K (A−A1),
where: S
=
the 'section width' expressed in mm (
13
) and measured on the measuring rim; S1
=
the 'nominal section width' in mm as shown on the sidewall of the tyre in the tyre-size designation as prescribed; A
=
the width (expressed in mm) of the measuring rim, as shown by the manufacturer in the descriptive note, (see section 6.11 of Annex I, Appendix 1);
A1
=
the width (expressed in mm) of the theoretical rim; it is taken to equal S1 multiplied by the factor x as specified by the tyre manufacturer (see section 6.15 of Annex I, Appendix 1); and K is taken to equal 0.4. 6.1.1.2. However, for the types of tyre for which the size designation is given in the first column of the tables in Appendix 5 A or 5 B, the measuring rim width (A) and the section width (S) are those given opposite the tyre size designation in those tables. 6.1.2. Outer diameter of a tyre
6.1.2.1. Except as provided by secton 6.1.2.2, the outer diameter of a tyre is calculated by the following formula: D = d + 0,02H
where: — D is the outer diameter expressed in mm,
— d is the conventional number defined in section 2.17.1.3, expressed in mm,
— H is the nominal section heigth in mm and is equal to S1 × 0,01 Ra; where: — Ra is the nominal aspect ratio,
all as shown on the sidewall of the tyre in the tyre-size designation in conformity with the requirements of section 3. 6.1.2.2. However, for the types of tyres for which the size designation is given in the first column of the tables of Appendix 5 the outer diameter is that given opposite the tyre size designation in those tables. 6.1.3. Method of measuring tyre dimensions
The actual dimensions of tyres are measured as prescribed in Appendix 6. 6.1.4. Tyre section width: specification of tolerance
6.1.4.1. The overall width of a tyre may be less than the section width determined pursuant to section 6.1.1 or shown in Appendix 5;
6.1.4.2. It may not exceed that value by more than the following: 6.1.4.2.1. diagonal (bias-ply) tyres: 6 % for passenger car tyres, 8 % for commercial vehicle tyres; 6.1.4.2.2. radial-ply tyres: 4 %; and
6.1.4.2.3. in addition, if the tyre has a special protective band, the figure as increased by the above tolerances may be exceeded by 8 mm. 6.1.4.2.4. However, for tyres of a section width exceeding 305 mm intended for dual (twin) mounting the nominal value must not be exceeded by more than 2 % for radial-ply or 4 % for diagonal (bias-ply) tyres. 6.1.5. Tyre outer diameter: specification of tolerance
The outer diameter of a tyre must not be outside the values Dmin and Dmax obtained from the following formulae: Dmin
=
d + (2H × a)
Dmax
=
d + (2H × b)
6.1.5.1. for sizes listed in Appendix 5:
H = 0,5 (D — d) — (for references see section 6.1.2.2). 6.1.5.2. for other sizes not listed in Appendix 5:
'H' and 'd' are as defined in section 6.1.2.1. 6.1.5.3. coefficients 'a' and 'b' are respectively: 6.1.5.3.1. coefficient 'a' = 0,97;
6.1.5.3.2. coefficient 'b' for normal, special, snow or temporary-use spare tyres
Category of use
Passenger car tyres
Commercial vehicle tyres
Radial
Bias
Radial
Bias
Normal
1,04 
1,08 
1,04 
1,07 
Special
—
—
1,06 
1,09 
Snow
1,04 
1,08 
1,04 
1,07 
Temporary-use
1,04 
1,08 
—
—
6.1.5.4. For snow tyres the outer diameter (Dmax) established in conformity with the above may be exceeded by 1 %.
6.2. Load/speed test requirement
6.2.1. The tyre must undergo a load/speed test carried out in accordance with the relevant procedure described in Appendix 7. 6.2.2. A tyre which, after undergoing the relevant load/speed test, does not exhibit any tread separation, ply separation, cord separation, chunking or broken cords is deemed to have passed the test. 6.2.3. The outer diameter of the tyre, measured six hours after the load/speed test, must not be more than 3,5 % greater than the outer diameter as measured before the test. 6.2.4. Where application is made for the approval of a type of commercial vehicle tyre the load/speed combinations given in the table in Appendix 8 apply and, the load/speed test prescribed in section 6.2.1 need not be carried out for load and speed values other than the nominal values. 6.2.5. Where application (see secton 6.13 of Annex 1, Appendix 1) is made for the type-approval of a type of commercial vehicle tyre which has a load/speed combination in addition to the one that is subject to the variation of load with speed given in the table in Appendix 8, the load/speed test prescribed in section 6.2.1 must also be carried out on a second tyre of the same type at the additional load/speed combination. 6.2.6. Where a tyre manufacturer produces a range of tyres it is not considered necessary to carry out a load/speed test on every type of tyre in the range. Worst-case selection may be made, at the discretion of the approval authority. 6.3. Tread-wear indicators
6.3.1. In the case of passenger car tyres the tread of the tyre must include not less than six transverse rows of tread-wear indicators, approximately equally spaced and situated in the wide grooves in the central zone of the tread, which covers approximately three quarters of the tread width. The tread-wear indicators must be such that they cannot be confused with the rubber ridges between the ribs or blocks of the tread. 6.3.2. However, in the case of tyres of dimensions appropriate for mounting on rims of a nominal diamter of 12″ or less, four rows of tread-wear indicators are acceptable. 6.3.3. The tread-wear indicators must give visual warning when the depth of the corresponding tread grooves has been reduced to 1,6 mm with a tolerance of + 0,6/- 0 mm. {{IMAGE:Image_7, Caption:Explanatory diagram showing the cross-section of a tyre, labeling key structural components such as the tread, sidewall, carcass, and bead, along with dimensional definitions like outer diameter, section height, and rim width. An inset details the internal cord and ply structure.}}
| Tyre size designation (2) | Measuring rim width (inches) | Outer diameter (1) (in mm) | Section width (1) (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 205 R 16 | 6 | 736 | 208 |
| (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. (2) On certain tyres the rim diameter can be expressed in mm: | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. (2) On certain tyres the rim diameter can be expressed in mm: | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. (2) On certain tyres the rim diameter can be expressed in mm: | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. (2) On certain tyres the rim diameter can be expressed in mm: |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring rim width (inches) | Outer diameter (1) (in mm) | Section width (1) (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 145/70 R 10 | 3.5 | 462 | 139 |
| 155/70 R 10 | 3.5 | 474 | 146 |
| 165/70 R 10 | 4.5 | 494 | 165 |
| 145/70 R 12 | 4 | 512 | 144 |
| 155/70 R 12 | 4 | 524 | 151 |
| 165/70 R 12 | 4.5 | 544 | 165 |
| 175/70 R 12 | 5 | 552 | 176 |
| 145/70 R 13 | 4 | 538 | 144 |
| 155/70 R 13 | 4 | 550 | 151 |
| 165/70 R 13 | 4.5 | 568 | 165 |
| 175/70 R 13 | 4.5 | 580 | 176 |
| 185/70 R 13 | 5 | 598 | 186 |
| 195/70 R 13 | 5.5 | 608 | 197 |
| 205/70 R 13 | 5.5 | 625 | 204 |
| 145/70 R 14 | 4 | 564 | 144 |
| 155/70 R 14 | 4 | 576 | 151 |
| 165/70 R 14 | 4.5 | 592 | 165 |
| 175/70 R 14 | 5 | 606 | 176 |
| 185/70 R 14 | 5 | 624 | 186 |
| 195/70 R 14 | 5.5 | 636 | 197 |
| 205/70 R 14 | 5.5 | 652 | 206 |
| 215/70 R 14 | 6 | 665 | 217 |
| 225/70 R 14 | 6 | 677 | 225 |
| 235/70 R 14 | 6.5 | 694 | 239 |
| 245/70 R 14 | 6.5 | 705 | 243 |
| 145/70 R 15 | 4 | 590 | 144 |
| 155/70 R 15 | 4 | 602 | 151 |
| 165/70 R 15 | 4.5 | 618 | 165 |
| 175/70 R 15 | 5 | 632 | 176 |
| 185/70 R 15 | 5 | 648 | 186 |
| 195/70 R 15 | 5.5 | 656 | 197 |
| 205/70 R 15 | 5.5 | 669 | 202 |
| 215/70 R 15 | 6 | 682 | 213 |
| 225/70 R 15 | 6 | 696 | 220 |
| 235/70 R 15 | 6.5 | 712 | 234 |
| 245/70 R 15 | 6.5 | 720 | 239 |
| (*1) Dimensional data applicable to some tyres in existence. For new approvals, dimensions calculated according to sections 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.2.1 of Annex II apply. (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (*1) Dimensional data applicable to some tyres in existence. For new approvals, dimensions calculated according to sections 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.2.1 of Annex II apply. (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (*1) Dimensional data applicable to some tyres in existence. For new approvals, dimensions calculated according to sections 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.2.1 of Annex II apply. (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (*1) Dimensional data applicable to some tyres in existence. For new approvals, dimensions calculated according to sections 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.2.1 of Annex II apply. (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring rim width (inches) | Outer diameter (1) (in mm) | Section width (1) (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 165/60 R 12 | 5 | 504 | 167 |
| 165/60 R 13 | 5 | 530 | 167 |
| 175/60 R 13 | 5.5 | 536 | 178 |
| 185/60 R 13 | 5.5 | 548 | 188 |
| 195/60 R 13 | 6 | 566 | 198 |
| 205/60 R 13 | 6 | 578 | 208 |
| 215/60 R 13 | 6 | 594 | 218 |
| 225/60 R 13 | 6.5 | 602 | 230 |
| 235/60 R 13 | 6.5 | 614 | 235 |
| 165/60 R 14 | 5 | 554 | 167 |
| 175/60 R 14 | 5.5 | 562 | 178 |
| 185/60 R 14 | 5.5 | 574 | 188 |
| 195/60 R 14 | 6 | 590 | 198 |
| 205/60 R 14 | 6 | 604 | 208 |
| 215/60 R 14 | 6 | 610 | 215 |
| 225/60 R 14 | 6 | 620 | 220 |
| 235/60 R 14 | 6.5 | 630 | 231 |
| 245/60 R 14 | 6.5 | 642 | 237 |
| 265/60 R 14 | 7 | 670 | 260 |
| 185/60 R 15 | 5.5 | 600 | 188 |
| 195/60 R 15 | 6 | 616 | 198 |
| 205/60 R 15 | 6 | 630 | 208 |
| 215/60 R 15 | 6 | 638 | 216 |
| 225/60 R 15 | 6.5 | 652 | 230 |
| 235/60 R 15 | 6.5 | 664 | 236 |
| 255/60 R 15 | 7 | 688 | 255 |
| 205/60 R 16 | 6 | 654 | 208 |
| 215/60 R 16 | 6 | 662 | 215 |
| 225/60 R 16 | 6 | 672 | 226 |
| 235/60 R 16 | 6.5 | 684 | 232 |
| (*1) Dimensional data applicable to some tyres in existence. For new approvals, dimensions calculated according to sections 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.2.1 of Annex III apply. (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (*1) Dimensional data applicable to some tyres in existence. For new approvals, dimensions calculated according to sections 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.2.1 of Annex III apply. (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (*1) Dimensional data applicable to some tyres in existence. For new approvals, dimensions calculated according to sections 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.2.1 of Annex III apply. (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (*1) Dimensional data applicable to some tyres in existence. For new approvals, dimensions calculated according to sections 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.2.1 of Annex III apply. (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring rim width (inches) | Outer diameter (1) (in mm) | Section width (1) (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 27 × 8.50 R 14 | 7 | 674 | 218 |
| 30 × 9.50 R 15 | 7.5 | 750 | 240 |
| 31 × 10.50 R 15 | 8.5 | 775 | 268 |
| 31 × 11.50 R 15 | 9 | 775 | 290 |
| 32 × 11.50 R 15 | 9 | 801 | 290 |
| 33 × 12.50 R 15 | 10 | 826 | 318 |
| (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. | (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 6.50 R 20 | 5.00 | 860 | 181 |
| 7.00 R 16 | 5.50 | 784 | 198 |
| 7.00 R 18 | 5.50 | 842 | 198 |
| 7.00 R 20 | 5.50 | 892 | 198 |
| 7.50 R 16 and/or A16 or 1-16 | 6.00 | 802 | 210 |
| 7.50 R 17 and/or A17 or 1-17 | 6.00 | 852 | 210 |
| 7.50 R 20 and/or A20 or 1-20 | 6.00 | 928 | 210 |
| 8.25 R 16 and/or B16 or 2-16 | 6.50 | 860 | 230 |
| 8.25 R 17 and/or B17 or 2-17 | 6.50 | 886 | 230 |
| 8.25 R 20 and/or B20 or 2-20 | 6.50 | 962 | 230 |
| 9.00 R 16 and/or C16 or 3-16 | 6.50 | 912 | 246 |
| 9.00 R 20 and/or C20 or 3-20 | 7.00 | 1 018 | 258 |
| 10.00 R 20 and/or D20 or 4-20 | 7.50 | 1 052 | 275 |
| 10.00 R 22 and/or D22 or 4-22 | 7.50 | 1 102 | 275 |
| 11.00 R 16 | 6.50 | 980 | 279 |
| 11.00 R 20 and/or E20 or 5-20 | 8.00 | 1 082 | 286 |
| 11.00 R 22 and/or E22 or 5-22 | 8.00 | 1 132 | 286 |
| 11.00 R 24 and/or E24 or 5-24 | 8.00 | 1 182 | 286 |
| 12.00 R 20 and/or F20 or 6-20 | 8.50 | 1 122 | 313 |
| 12.00 R 22 | 8.50 | 1 174 | 313 |
| 12.00 R 24 and/or F24 or 6-24 | 8.50 | 1 226 | 313 |
| 13.00 R 20 | 9.00 | 1 176 | 336 |
| 14.00 R 20 and/or G20 or 7-20 | 10.00 | 1 238 | 370 |
| 14.00 R 22 | 10.00 | 1 290 | 370 |
| 14.00 R 24 | 10.00 | 1 340 | 370 | Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 7.00-16 | 5.50 | 774 | 198 |
| 7.00-20 | 5.50 | 898 | 198 |
| 7.50-16 and/or A16 or 1-16 | 6.00 | 806 | 210 |
| 7.50-17 and/or A17 or 1-17 | 6.00 | 852 | 210 |
| 7.50-20 and/or A20 or 1-20 | 6.00 | 928 | 213 |
| 8.25-16 and/or B16 or 2-16 | 6.50 | 860 | 234 |
| 8.25-17 and/or B17 or 2-17 | 6.50 | 895 | 234 |
| 8.25-20 and/or B20 or 2-20 | 6.50 | 970 | 234 |
| 9.00-16 | 6.50 | 900 | 252 |
| 9.00-20 and/or C20 or 3-20 | 7.00 | 1 012 | 256 |
| 9.00-24 and/or C24 or 3-24 | 7.00 | 1 114 | 256 |
| 10.00-20 and/or D20 or 4-20 | 7.50 | 1 050 | 275 |
| 10.00-22 and/or D22 or 4-22 | 7.50 | 1 102 | 275 |
| 11.00-20 and/or E20 or 5-20 | 8.00 | 1 080 | 291 |
| 11.00-22 and/or E22 or 5-22 | 8.00 | 1 130 | 291 |
| 11.00-24 and/or E24 or 5-24 | 8.00 | 1 180 | 291 |
| 12.00-18 | 8.50 | 1 070 | 312 |
| 12.00-20 and/or F20 or 6-20 | 8.50 | 1 120 | 312 |
| 12.00-22 and/or F22 or 6-22 | 8.50 | 1 172 | 312 |
| 12.00-24 and/or F24 or 6-24 | 8.50 | 1 220 | 312 |
| 13.00-20 | 9.00 | 1 170 | 342 |
{{IMAGE:Image_7, Caption:Explanatory diagram showing the cross-section of a tyre, labeling key structural components such as the tread, sidewall, carcass, and bead, along with dimensional definitions like outer diameter, section height, and rim width. An inset details the internal cord and ply structure.}} Appendix 2LIST OF SYMBOLS OF LOAD-CAPACITY INDICES (LI) AND CORRESPONDING MAXIMUM MASS TO BE CARRIED (GK)
(see Annex II, section 2.28)
LI
Maximum
0
45
1
46,2 
2
47,5 
3
48,7 
4
50
5
51,5 
6
53
7
54,5 
8
56
9
58
10
60
11
61,5 
12
63
13
65
14
67
15
69
16
71
17
73
18
75
19
77,5 
20
80
21
82,5 
22
85
23
87,5 
24
90
25
92,5 
26
95
27
97,5 
28
100
29
103
30
106
31
109
32
112
33
115
34
118
35
121
36
125
37
128
38
132
39
136
40
140
41
145
42
150
43
155
44
160
45
165
46
170
47
175
48
180
49
185
50
190
51
195
52
200
53
206
54
212
55
218
56
224
57
230
58
236
59
240
60
250
61
257
62
265
63
272
64
280
65
290
66
300
67
307
68
315
69
325
70
335
71
345
72
355
73
365
74
375
75
387
76
400
77
412
78
425
79
437
80
450
81
462
82
475
83
487
84
500
85
515
86
530
87
545
88
560
89
580
90
600
91
615
92
630
93
650
94
670
95
690
96
710
97
730
98
750
99
775
100
800
101
825
102
850
103
875
104
900
105
925
106
950
107
975
108
1 000 
109
1 030 
110
1 060 
111
1 090 
112
1 120 
113
1 150 
114
1 180 
115
1 215 
116
1 250 
117
1 285 
118
1 320 
119
1 360 
120
1 400 
121
1 450 
122
1 500 
123
1 550 
124
1 600 
125
1 650 
126
1 700 
127
1 750 
128
1 800 
129
1 850 
130
1 900 
131
1 950 
132
2 000 
133
2 060 
134
2 120 
135
2 180 
136
2 240 
137
2 300 
138
2 360 
139
2 430 
140
2 500 
141
2 575 
142
2 650 
143
2 725 
144
2 800 
145
2 900 
146
3 000 
147
3 075 
148
3 150 
149
3 250 
150
3 350 
151
3 450 
152
3 550 
153
3 650 
154
3 750 
155
3 875 
156
4 000 
157
4 125 
158
4 250 
159
4 375 
160
4 500 
161
4 625 
162
4 750 
163
4 875 
164
5 000 
165
5 150 
166
5 300 
167
5 450 
168
5 600 
169
5 800 
170
6 000 
171
6 150 
172
6 300 
173
6 500 
174
6 700 
175
6 900 
176
7 100 
177
7 300 
178
7 500 
179
7 750 
180
8 000 
181
8 250 
182
8 500 
183
8 750 
184
9 000 
185
9 250 
186
9 500 
187
9 750 
188
10 000 
189
10 300 
190
10 600 
191
10 900 
192
11 200 
193
11 500 
194
11 800 
195
12 150 
196
12 500 
197
12 850 
198
13 200 
199
13 600 
200
14 000 
Appendix 3ARRANGEMENT OF TYRE MARKINGS
(see Annex II, section 3.2)
PART A: PASSENGER CAR TYRES
Example of the markings to be borne by types of tyres placed on the market after notification of this Directive
These markings define a tyre: — having a nominal section width of 185,
— having a nominal aspect ratio of 70,
— of radial-ply structure (R),
— having a nominal rim diameter of 14,
— having a load capacity of 580 kg, corresponding to load index 89 in Appendix 2,
— classified in the speed category T (maximum speed 190 km/h),
— for fitting without an inner tube ('tubeless'),
— of 'snow' type,
— manufactured during the twenty-fifth week of the year 1993. The positioning and order of the markings constituting the tyre designation are as follows: (a) the size designation, comprising the nominal section width, the nominal aspect ratio, the type of structure symbol (where applicable) and the nominal rim diameter, must be grouped as shown in the above example: 185/70 R 14; (b) the load index and the speed category symbol are placed near the size designation. They may either precede or follow it or be placed above or below it; (c) the symbols 'tubeless', 'reinforced', and 'M + S' may be at a distance from the size designation. PART B: COMMERCIAL VEHICLE TYRES
These markings define a tyre: — having a nominal section width of 250,
— having a nominal aspect ratio of 70,
— of racial-ply structure (R),
— having a nominal rim diameter of 508 mm, for which the symbol is 20,
— having load capacities of 3 250 kg when single and 2 900 kg when twinned (dual), corresponding respectively to the load capacity indices 149 and 145 shown in Appendix 2,
— classified in the nominal speed category J (reference speed 100 km/h),
— able to be used additionally in speed category L (reference speed 120 km/h) with a load capacity of 3 000 kg when single and 2 725 kg when twinned (dual), corresponding respectively to the load capacity indices 146 and 143 shown in Appendix 2,
— for fitting without an inner tube 'tubeless',
— of 'snow' type,
— manufactured during the twenty-fifth week of the year 1991, and
— requiring to be inflated to 620 kPa for load/speed endurance tests, for which the PSI symbol is 90. The positioning and order of the markings constituting the tyre designation are as follows: (a) the size designation, comprising the nominal section width, the nominal aspect ratio, the type-of-structure symbol (where applicable) and the nominal rim diameter, must be grouped as shown in the above example: 250/70 R 20; (b) the load indices and the speed category symbol are placed together near the size designation. They may either precede or follow it or be placed above or below it; (c) the symbols 'Tubeless', 'M + S' and 'REGROOVABLE' may be at a distance from the size designation; (d) if section 6.2.5 of Annex II is applied the additional load-capacity indices and speed-category symbol must be shown inside a circle near the nominal load-capacity indices and speed category symbol appearing on the tyre sidewall. Appendix 4RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE PRESSURE INDEX AND THE UNITS OF PRESSURE
(see Annex II, Appendix 7, Part B, section 1.3)
Pressure Index
('PSI')
bar
kPa
20
1.4
140
25
1.7
170
30
2.1
210
35
2.4
240
40
2.8
280
45
3.1
310
50
3.4
340
55
3.8
380
60
4.2
420
65
4.5
450
70
4.8
480
75
5.2
520
80
5.5
550
85
5.9
590
90
6.2
620
95
6.6
660
100
6.9
690
105
7.2
720
110
7.6
760
115
7.9
790
120
8.3
830
125
8.6
860
130
9.0
900
135
9.3
930
140
9.7
970
145
10.0
1 000 
150
10.3
1 030 
Appendix 5MEASURING RIM, OUTER DIAMETER AND SECTION WIDTH OF TYRES OF CERTAIN SIZE DESIGNATIONS
(see Annex II, sections 6.1.1.2 and 6.1.2.2)
PART A: PASSENCER CAR TYRES
TABLE 1
Tyres in diagonal construction
Tyre size designation
Measuring rim width
(inches)
Outer diameter (1) (in mm)
Section width (1) (in mm)
Super balloon series
4.80-10
3.5
490
128
5.20-10
3.5
508
132
5.20-12
3.5
558
132
5.60-13
4
600
145
5.90-13
4
616
150
6.40-13
4.5
642
163
5.20-14
3.5
612
132
5.60-14
4
626
145
5.90-14
4
642
150
6.40-14
4.5
666
163
5.60-15
4
650
145
5.90-15
4
668
150
6.40-15
4.5
692
163
6.70-15
4.5
710
170
7.10-15
5
724
180
7.60-15
5.5
742
193
8.20-15
6
760
213
Low section series
5.50-12
4
552
142
6.00-12
4.5
574
156
7.00-13
5
644
178
7.00-14
5
668
178
7.50-14
5.5
688
190
8.00-14
6
702
203
6.00-15 L
4.5
650
156
Super low section series (2) 155-13/6.15-13
4.5
582
157
165-13/6.45-13
4.5
600
167
175-13/6.95-13
5
610
178
155-14/6.15-14
4.5
608
157
165-14/6.45-14
4.5
626
167
175-14/6.95-14
5
638
178
185-14/7.35-14
5.5
654
188
195-14/7.75-14
5.5
670
198
Ultra low section
5.9-10
4.5
483
148
6.5-13
4.5
586
166
6.9-13
4.5
600
172
7.3-13
5
614
184
(1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. (2) The following size designations are accepted: 185-14/7.35-14 or 185-14 or 7.35-14 or 7.35-14/185-14. TABLE 2
Tyres in radial construction
Tyre size designation
Measuring rim width
(inches)
Outer diameter (1) (in mm)
Section width (1) (in mm)
5.60 R 13
4
606
145
5.90 R 13
4.5
626
155
6.40 R 13
4.5
640
170
7.00 R 13
5
644
178
7.25 R 13
5
654
184
5.90 R 14
4.5
654
155
5.60 R 15
4
656
145
6.40 R 15
4.5
690
170
6.70 R 15
5
710
180
140 R 12
4
538
138
150 R 12
4
554
150
150 R 13
4
580
149
160 R 13
4.5
596
158
170 R 13
5
608
173
150 R 14
4
606
149
180 R 15
5
676
174
(1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.
| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 13.00-20 | 9.00 | 1 170 | 342 |
| 14.00-20 and/or G20 or 7-20 | 10.00 | 1 238 | 375 |
| 14.00-22 and/or G22 or 7-22 | 10.00 | 1 290 | 375 |
| 14.00-24 and/or G24 or 7-24 | 10.00 | 1 340 | 375 |
| 15.00-20 | 11.25 | 1 295 | 412 |
| 16.00-20 | 13.00 | 1 370 | 446 | Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 8 R 17.5 | 6.00 | 784 | 208 |
| 8.5 R 17.5 | 6.00 | 802 | 215 |
| 9 R 17.5 | 6.75 | 820 | 230 |
| 9.5 R 17.5 | 6.75 | 842 | 240 |
| 10 R 17.5 | 7.50 | 858 | 254 |
| 11 R 17.5 | 8.25 | 900 | 279 |
| 7 R 19.5 | 5.25 | 800 | 185 |
| 8 R 19.5 | 6.00 | 856 | 208 |
| 8 R 22.5 | 6.00 | 936 | 208 |
| 9 R 19.5 | 6.75 | 894 | 230 |
| 9 R 22.5 | 6.75 | 970 | 230 |
| 9.5 R 19.5 | 6.75 | 916 | 240 |
| 10 R 19.5 | 7.50 | 936 | 254 |
| 10 R 22.5 | 7.50 | 1 020 | 254 |
| 11 R 19.5 | 8.25 | 970 | 279 |
| 11 R 22.5 | 8.25 | 1 050 | 279 |
| 11 R 24.5 | 8.25 | 1 100 | 279 |
| 12 R 19.5 | 9.00 | 1 008 | 300 |
| 12 R 22.5 | 9.00 | 1 084 | 300 |
| 13 R 22.5 | 9.75 | 1 124 | 320 |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 8-19.5 | 6.00 | 856 | 208 |
| 9-19.5 | 6.75 | 894 | 230 |
| 9-22.5 | 6.75 | 970 | 230 |
| 10-22.5 | 7.50 | 1 020 | 254 |
| 11-22.5 | 8.25 | 1 054 | 279 |
| 11-24.5 | 8.25 | 1 100 | 279 |
| 12-22.5 | 9.00 | 1 084 | 300 | Tolerance: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 14 R 19.5 | 10.50 | 962 | 349 |
| 15 R 19.5 | 11.75 | 998 | 387 |
| 15 R 22.5 | 11.75 | 1 074 | 387 |
| 16.5 R 19.5 | 13.00 | 1 046 | 425 |
| 16.5 R 22.5 | 13.00 | 1 122 | 425 |
| 18 R 19.5 | 14.00 | 1 082 | 457 |
| 18 R 22.5 | 14.00 | 1 158 | 457 |
| 19.5 R 19.5 | 15.00 | 1 134 | 495 |
| 21 R 22.5 | 16.50 | 1 246 | 540 |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 15-19.5 | 11.75 | 1 004 | 387 |
| 15-22.5 | 11.75 | 1 080 | 387 |
| 16.5-19.5 | 13.00 | 1 052 | 425 |
| 16.5-22.5 | 13.00 | 1 128 | 425 |
| 18-19.5 | 14.00 | 1 080 | 457 |
| 18-22.5 | 14.00 | 1 156 | 457 |
| 19.5-19.5 | 15.00 | 1 138 | 495 |
| 21-22.5 | 16.50 | 1 246 | 540 | Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 12/80 R 20 | 8.50 | 1 008 | 305 |
| 13/80 R 20 | 9.00 | 1 048 | 326 |
| 14/80 R 20 | 10.00 | 1 090 | 350 |
| 14/80 R 24 | 10.00 | 1 192 | 350 |
| 14.75/80 R 20 | 10.00 | 1 124 | 370 |
| 15.5/80 R 20 | 10.00 | 1 158 | 384 |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 9/70 R 22.5 | 6.75 | 892 | 229 |
| 10/70 R 22.5 | 7.50 | 928 | 254 |
| 11/70 R 22.5 | 8.25 | 962 | 279 |
| 12/70 R 22.5 | 9.00 | 999 | 305 |
| 13/70 R 22.5 | 9.75 | 1 033 | 330 |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 12/80 R 22.5 | 9.00 | 1 046 | 305 | Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 6.00 R 16 C | 4.50 | 728 | 170 |
| 6.00 R 18 C | 4.00 | 782 | 165 |
| 6.50 R 16 C | 4.50 | 742 | 176 |
| 6.50 R 17 C | 4.50 | 772 | 176 |
| 6.50 R 17 LC | 4.50 | 726 | 166 |
| 6.50 R 20 C | 5.00 | 860 | 181 |
| 7.00 R 16 C | 5.50 | 778 | 198 |
| 7.50 R 16 C | 6.00 | 802 | 210 |
| 7.50 R 17 C | 6.00 | 852 | 210 |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 6.00-16 C | 4.50 | 730 | 170 |
| 6.00-18 C | 4.00 | 786 | 165 |
| 6.00-20 C | 5.00 | 842 | 172 |
| 6.50-20 C | 4.50 | 748 | 176 |
| 6.50-17 LC | 4.50 | 726 | 166 |
| 6.50-20 C | 5.00 | 870 | 181 |
| 7.00-16 C | 5.50 | 778 | 198 |
| 7.00-18 C | 5.50 | 848 | 198 |
| 7.00-20 C | 5.50 | 898 | 198 |
| 7.50-16 C | 6.00 | 806 | 210 |
| 7.50-17 C | 6.00 | 852 | 210 |
| 8.25-16 C | 6.50 | 860 | 234 |
| 8.90-16 C | 6.50 | 885 | 250 |
| 9.00-16 C | 6.50 | 900 | 252 | Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 'Super balloon' series | 'Super balloon' series | 'Super balloon' series | 'Super balloon' series |
| 5.60 R 12 C | 4.00 | 570 | 150 |
| 6.40 R 13 C | 5.00 | 648 | 172 |
| 6.70 R 13 C | 5.00 | 660 | 180 |
| 6.70 R 14 C | 5.00 | 688 | 180 |
| 6.70 R 15 C | 5.00 | 712 | 180 |
| 7.00 R 15 C | 5.50 | 744 | 195 |
| 'Low section' series | 'Low section' series | 'Low section' series | 'Low section' series |
| 6.50 R 14 C | 5.00 | 640 | 170 |
| 7.00 R 14 C | 5.00 | 650 | 180 |
| 7.50 R 14 C | 5.50 | 686 | 195 |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 7 R 17.5 C | 5.25 | 752 | 185 |
| 8 R 17.5 C | 6.00 | 784 | 208 | Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 'Super balloon' series | 'Super balloon' series | 'Super balloon' series | 'Super balloon' series |
| 5.20-12 C | 3.50 | 560 | 136 |
| 5.60-12 C | 4.00 | 572 | 148 |
| 5.60-13 C | 4.00 | 598 | 148 |
| 5.90-13 C | 4.50 | 616 | 158 |
| 5.90-14 C | 4.50 | 642 | 158 |
| 5.90-15 C | 4.50 | 668 | 158 |
| 6.40-13 C | 5.00 | 640 | 172 |
| 6.40-14 C | 5.00 | 666 | 172 |
| 6.40-15 C | 5.00 | 692 | 172 |
| 6.40-16 C | 4.50 | 748 | 172 |
| 6.70-13 C | 5.00 | 662 | 180 |
| 6.70-14 C | 5.00 | 688 | 180 |
| 6.70-15 C | 5.00 | 714 | 180 |
| 'Low section' series | 'Low section' series | 'Low section' series | 'Low section' series |
| 5.50-12 C | 4.00 | 552 | 142 |
| 6.00-12 C | 4.50 | 574 | 158 |
| 6.00-14 C | 4.50 | 626 | 158 |
| 6.50-14 C | 5.00 | 650 | 172 |
| 6.50-15 C | 5.00 | 676 | 172 |
| 7.00-14 C | 5.00 | 668 | 182 |
| 7.50-14 C | 5.50 | 692 | 192 |
| 'Balloon' series | 'Balloon' series | 'Balloon' series | 'Balloon' series |
| 7.00-15 C | 5.50 | 752 | 198 |
| 7.50-15 C | 6.00 | 780 | 210 |
| 'Millimetric' series | 'Millimetric' series | 'Millimetric' series | 'Millimetric' series |
| 125-12 C | 3.50 | 514 | 127 |
| 165-15 C | 4.50 | 652 | 167 |
| 185-14 C | 5.50 | 654 | 188 |
| 195-14 C | 5.50 | 670 | 198 |
| 245-16 C | 7.00 | 798 | 248 |
| 17-15 C or | 5.00 | 678 | 178 |
| 17-380 C | 5.00 | 678 | 178 |
| 17-400 C | 19 × 400 mm | 702 | 186 |
| 19-400 C | 19 × 400 mm | 736 | 200 |
| 21-400 C | 19 × 400 mm | 772 | 216 | Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 125 R 12 C | 3.50 | 510 | 127 |
| 125 R 13 C | 3.50 | 536 | 127 |
| 125 R 14 C | 3.00 | 562 | 127 |
| 125 R 15 C | 3.50 | 588 | 127 |
| 135 R 12 C | 4.00 | 522 | 137 |
| 135 R 13 C | 4.00 | 548 | 137 |
| 135 R 14 C | 4.00 | 574 | 137 |
| 135 R 15 C | 4.00 | 600 | 137 |
| 145 R 10 C | 4.00 | 492 | 147 |
| 145 R 12 C | 4.00 | 542 | 147 |
| 145 R 13 C | 4.00 | 566 | 147 |
| 145 R 14 C | 4.00 | 590 | 147 |
| 145 R 15 C | 4.00 | 616 | 147 |
| 155 R 12 C | 4.50 | 550 | 157 |
| 155 R 13 C | 4.50 | 578 | 157 |
| 155 R 14 C | 4.50 | 604 | 157 |
| 155 R 15 C | 4.50 | 630 | 157 |
| 155 R 16 C | 4.50 | 656 | 157 |
| 165 R 13 C | 4.50 | 596 | 167 |
| 165 R 14 C | 4.50 | 622 | 167 |
| 165 R 15 C | 4.50 | 646 | 167 |
| 165 R 16 C | 4.50 | 672 | 167 |
| 175 R 13 C | 5.00 | 608 | 178 |
| 175 R 14 C | 5.00 | 634 | 178 |
TABLE 2
Tyres in radial construction
Tyre size designation
Measuring rim width
(inches)
Outer diameter (1) (in mm)
Section width (1) (in mm)
5.60 R 13
4
606
145
5.90 R 13
4.5
626
155
6.40 R 13
4.5
640
170
7.00 R 13
5
644
178
7.25 R 13
5
654
184
5.90 R 14
4.5
654
155
5.60 R 15
4
656
145
6.40 R 15
4.5
690
170
6.70 R 15
5
710
180
140 R 12
4
538
138
150 R 12
4
554
150
150 R 13
4
580
149
160 R 13
4.5
596
158
170 R 13
5
608
173
150 R 14
4
606
149
180 R 15
5
676
174
(1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

TABLE 3
Millimetric series — radial
Tyre size designation (2) Measuring rim width
(inches)
Outer diameter (1) (in mm)
Section width (1) (in mm)
125 R 10
3.5
459
127
145 R 10
4
492
147
125 R 12
3.5
510
178
135 R 12
4
522
184
145 R 12
4
542
155 R 12
4.5
550
155
125 R 13
3.5
536
127
135 R 13
4
548
137
145 R 13
4
566
147
155 R 13
4.5
578
157
165 R 13
4.5
596
167
175 R 13
5
608
178
185 R 13
5.5
624
188
125 R 14
3.5
562
127
135 R 14
4
574
137
145 R 14
4
590
147
155 R 14
4.5
604
157
165 R 14
4.5
622
167
175 R 14
5
634
178
185 R 14
5.5
650
188
195 R 14
5.5
666
198
205 R 14
6
686
208
215 R 14
6
700
218
225 R 14
6.5
714
228
125 R 15
3.5
588
127
135 R 15
4
600
137
145 R 15
4
616
147
155 R 15
4.5
630
157
165 R 15
4.5
646
167
175 R 15
5
660
178
185 R 15
5.5
674
188
195 R 15
5.5
690
198
205 R 15
6
710
208
215 R 15
6
724
218
225 R 15
6.5
738
228
235 R 15
6.5
752
238
175 R 16
5
686
178
185 R 16
5.5
698
188
205 R 16
6
736
208
(1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. (2) On certain tyres the rim diameter can be expressed in mm: TABLE 4
70 Series — Radial (*1)
Tyre size designation
Measuring rim width
(inches)
Outer diameter (1) (in mm)
Section width (1) (in mm)
145/70 R 10
3.5
462
139
155/70 R 10
3.5
474
146
165/70 R 10
4.5
494
165
145/70 R 12
4
512
144
155/70 R 12
4
524
151
165/70 R 12
4.5
544
165
175/70 R 12
5
552
176
145/70 R 13
4
538
144
155/70 R 13
4
550
151
165/70 R 13
4.5
568
165
175/70 R 13
4.5
580
176
185/70 R 13
5
598
186
195/70 R 13
5.5
608
197
205/70 R 13
5.5
625
204
145/70 R 14
4
564
144
155/70 R 14
4
576
151
165/70 R 14
4.5
592
165
175/70 R 14
5
606
176
185/70 R 14
5
624
186
195/70 R 14
5.5
636
197
205/70 R 14
5.5
652
206
215/70 R 14
6
665
217
225/70 R 14
6
677
225
235/70 R 14
6.5
694
239
245/70 R 14
6.5
705
243
145/70 R 15
4
590
144
155/70 R 15
4
602
151
165/70 R 15
4.5
618
165
175/70 R 15
5
632
176
185/70 R 15
5
648
186
195/70 R 15
5.5
656
197
205/70 R 15
5.5
669
202
215/70 R 15
6
682
213
225/70 R 15
6
696
220
235/70 R 15
6.5
712
234
245/70 R 15
6.5
720
239
(*1) Dimensional data applicable to some tyres in existence. For new approvals, dimensions calculated according to sections 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.2.1 of Annex II apply. (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. TABLE 5
60 Series radial (*1)
Tyre size designation
Measuring rim width
(inches)
Outer diameter (1) (in mm)
Section width (1) (in mm)
165/60 R 12
5
504
167
165/60 R 13
5
530
167
175/60 R 13
5.5
536
178
185/60 R 13
5.5
548
188
195/60 R 13
6
566
198
205/60 R 13
6
578
208
215/60 R 13
6
594
218
225/60 R 13
6.5
602
230
235/60 R 13
6.5
614
235
165/60 R 14
5
554
167
175/60 R 14
5.5
562
178
185/60 R 14
5.5
574
188
195/60 R 14
6
590
198
205/60 R 14
6
604
208
215/60 R 14
6
610
215
225/60 R 14
6
620
220
235/60 R 14
6.5
630
231
245/60 R 14
6.5
642
237
265/60 R 14
7
670
260
185/60 R 15
5.5
600
188
195/60 R 15
6
616
198
205/60 R 15
6
630
208
215/60 R 15
6
638
216
225/60 R 15
6.5
652
230
235/60 R 15
6.5
664
236
255/60 R 15
7
688
255
205/60 R 16
6
654
208
215/60 R 16
6
662
215
225/60 R 16
6
672
226
235/60 R 16
6.5
684
232
(*1) Dimensional data applicable to some tyres in existence. For new approvals, dimensions calculated according to sections 6.1.1.1 and 6.1.2.1 of Annex III apply. (1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. TABLE 6
High flotation tyres — radial
Tyre size designation
Measuring rim width
(inches)
Outer diameter (1) (in mm)
Section width (1) (in mm)
27 × 8.50 R 14
7
674
218
30 × 9.50 R 15
7.5
750
240
31 × 10.50 R 15
8.5
775
268
31 × 11.50 R 15
9
775
290
32 × 11.50 R 15
9
801
290
33 × 12.50 R 15
10
826
318
(1) Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. PART B: COMMERCIAL VEHICLE TYRES
TABLE 1
Commercial vehicle tyres
RADIAL NORMAL SECTION SIZES MOUNTED ON 5o-TAPERED OR FLAT BASE RIMS
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
6.50 R 20
5.00
860
181
7.00 R 16
5.50
784
198
7.00 R 18
5.50
842
198
7.00 R 20
5.50
892
198
7.50 R 16 and/or A16 or 1-16
6.00
802
210
7.50 R 17 and/or A17 or 1-17
6.00
852
210
7.50 R 20 and/or A20 or 1-20
6.00
928
210
8.25 R 16 and/or B16 or 2-16
6.50
860
230
8.25 R 17 and/or B17 or 2-17
6.50
886
230
8.25 R 20 and/or B20 or 2-20
6.50
962
230
9.00 R 16 and/or C16 or 3-16
6.50
912
246
9.00 R 20 and/or C20 or 3-20
7.00
1 018 
258
10.00 R 20 and/or D20 or 4-20
7.50
1 052 
275
10.00 R 22 and/or D22 or 4-22
7.50
1 102 
275
11.00 R 16
6.50
980
279
11.00 R 20 and/or E20 or 5-20
8.00
1 082 
286
11.00 R 22 and/or E22 or 5-22
8.00
1 132 
286
11.00 R 24 and/or E24 or 5-24
8.00
1 182 
286
12.00 R 20 and/or F20 or 6-20
8.50
1 122 
313
12.00 R 22
8.50
1 174 
313
12.00 R 24 and/or F24 or 6-24
8.50
1 226 
313
13.00 R 20
9.00
1 176 
336
14.00 R 20 and/or G20 or 7-20
10.00
1 238 
370
14.00 R 22
10.00
1 290 
370
14.00 R 24
10.00
1 340 
370
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. TABLE 2
Commercial vehicle tyres
DIAGONAL
DIAGONAL NORMAL SECTION SIZES MOUNTED ON 5o-TAPERED OR FLAT BASE RIMS
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
7.00-16
5.50
774
198
7.00-20
5.50
898
198
7.50-16 and/or A16 or 1-16
6.00
806
210
7.50-17 and/or A17 or 1-17
6.00
852
210
7.50-20 and/or A20 or 1-20
6.00
928
213
8.25-16 and/or B16 or 2-16
6.50
860
234
8.25-17 and/or B17 or 2-17
6.50
895
234
8.25-20 and/or B20 or 2-20
6.50
970
234
9.00-16
6.50
900
252
9.00-20 and/or C20 or 3-20
7.00
1 012 
256
9.00-24 and/or C24 or 3-24
7.00
1 114 
256
10.00-20 and/or D20 or 4-20
7.50
1 050 
275
10.00-22 and/or D22 or 4-22
7.50
1 102 
275
11.00-20 and/or E20 or 5-20
8.00
1 080 
291
11.00-22 and/or E22 or 5-22
8.00
1 130 
291
11.00-24 and/or E24 or 5-24
8.00
1 180 
291
12.00-18
8.50
1 070 
312
12.00-20 and/or F20 or 6-20
8.50
1 120 
312
12.00-22 and/or F22 or 6-22
8.50
1 172 
312
12.00-24 and/or F24 or 6-24
8.50
1 220 
312
13.00-20
9.00
1 170 
342
14.00-20 and/or G20 or 7-20
10.00
1 238 
375
14.00-22 and/or G22 or 7-22
10.00
1 290 
375
14.00-24 and/or G24 or 7-24
10.00
1 340 
375
15.00-20
11.25
1 295 
412
16.00-20
13.00
1 370 
446
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. TABLE 3
Commercial vehicle tyres
RADIAL NORMAL SECTION SIZES MOUNTED ON 15o-TAPERED RIMS (DROP-CENTRE)
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
8 R 17.5
6.00
784
208
8.5 R 17.5
6.00
802
215
9 R 17.5
6.75
820
230
9.5 R 17.5
6.75
842
240
10 R 17.5
7.50
858
254
11 R 17.5
8.25
900
279
7 R 19.5
5.25
800
185
8 R 19.5
6.00
856
208
8 R 22.5
6.00
936
208
9 R 19.5
6.75
894
230
9 R 22.5
6.75
970
230
9.5 R 19.5
6.75
916
240
10 R 19.5
7.50
936
254
10 R 22.5
7.50
1 020 
254
11 R 19.5
8.25
970
279
11 R 22.5
8.25
1 050 
279
11 R 24.5
8.25
1 100 
279
12 R 19.5
9.00
1 008 
300
12 R 22.5
9.00
1 084 
300
13 R 22.5
9.75
1 124 
320
TABLE 4
DIAGONAL NORMAL SECTION SIZES MOUNTED ON 15o-TAPERED RIMS (DROP-CENTRE)
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
8-19.5
6.00
856
208
9-19.5
6.75
894
230
9-22.5
6.75
970
230
10-22.5
7.50
1 020 
254
11-22.5
8.25
1 054 
279
11-24.5
8.25
1 100 
279
12-22.5
9.00
1 084 
300
Tolerance: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.
| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 175 R 14 C | 5.00 | 634 | 178 |
| 175 R 15 C | 5.00 | 660 | 178 |
| 175 R 16 C | 5.00 | 684 | 178 |
| 185 R 13 C | 5.50 | 624 | 188 |
| 185 R 14 C | 5.50 | 650 | 188 |
| 185 R 15 C | 5.50 | 674 | 188 |
| 185 R 16 C | 5.50 | 700 | 188 |
| 195 R 14 C | 5.50 | 666 | 198 |
| 195 R 15 C | 5.50 | 690 | 198 |
| 195 R 16 C | 5.50 | 716 | 198 |
| 205 R 14 C | 6.00 | 686 | 208 |
| 205 R 15 C | 6.00 | 710 | 208 |
| 205 R 16 C | 6.00 | 736 | 208 |
| 215 R 14 C | 6.00 | 700 | 218 |
| 215 R 15 C | 6.00 | 724 | 218 |
| 215 R 16 C | 6.00 | 750 | 218 |
| 225 R 14 C | 6.50 | 714 | 228 |
| 225 R 15 C | 6.50 | 738 | 228 |
| 225 R 16 C | 6.50 | 764 | 228 |
| 235 R 14 C | 6.50 | 728 | 238 |
| 235 R 15 C | 6.50 | 752 | 238 |
| 235 R 16 C | 6.50 | 778 | 238 |
| 17 R 15 C or | 5.00 | 678 | 178 |
| 17 R 380 C | 5.00 | 678 | 178 |
| 17 R 400 C | 19 × 400 mm | 698 | 186 |
| 19 R 400 C | 19 × 400 mm | 728 | 200 | Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 10.5-18 MPT | 9 | 905 | 270 |
| 10.5-20 MPT | 9 | 955 | 270 |
| 12.5-18 MPT | 11 | 990 | 325 |
| 12.5-20 MPT | 11 | 1 040 | 325 |
| 14.5-20 MPT | 11 | 1 095 | 355 |
| 14.5-24 MPT | 11 | 1 195 | 355 |
| 7.50-18 MPT | 5.50 | 885 | 208 |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 10.5 R 20 MPT | 9 | 955 | 276 |
| 12.5 R 20 MPT | 11 | 1 040 | 330 |
| 14.5 R 20 MPT | 11 | 1 095 | 362 |
| 14.5 R 24 MPT | 11 | 1 195 | 362 | Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 5.00 R 8 | 3.00 | 467 | 132 |
| 6.00 R 9 | 4.00 | 540 | 160 |
| 7.00 R 12 | 5.00 | 672 | 192 |
| 7.50 R 15 | 6.00 | 772 | 212 |
| 8.25 R 15 | 6.50 | 836 | 234 |
| 10.00 R 15 | 7.50 | 918 | 275 |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 6.00-9 | 4.00 | 540 | 160 |
| 7.00-12 | 5.00 | 672 | 192 |
| 7.00-15 | 5.00 | 746 | 192 |
| 7.50-15 | 6.00 | 772 | 212 |
| 8.25-15 | 6.50 | 836 | 234 |
| 10.00-15 | 7.50 | 918 | 275 |
| 200-15 | 6.50 | 730 | 205 |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 7.25/75-16.5 or 7.25-16.5 | 5.25 | 695 | 182 |
| 8.00/75-16.5 or 8.00-16.5 | 6.00 | 724 | 203 |
| 8.75/75-16.5 or 8.75-16.5 | 6.75 | 752 | 224 |
| 9.50/75-16.5 or 9.50-16.5 | 7.50 | 781 | 245 | Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 3.00-4 | 2.10 | 255 | 81 |
| 4.00-4 | 2.50 | 312 | 107 |
| 4.00-8 | 2.50 | 414 | 107 |
| 5.00-8 | 3.00 | 467 | 132 |
| 6.50-10 | 5.00 | 588 | 177 |
| 7.00-9 | 5.00 | 562 | 174 |
| 7.50-10 | 5.50 | 645 | 207 |
| 8.25-10 | 6.50 | 698 | 240 |
| 10.50-13 | 6.00 | 889 | 275 |
| 10.50-16 | 6.00 | 965 | 275 |
| 11.00-16 | 6.00 | 952 | 272 |
| 14.00-16 | 10.00 | 1 139 | 375 |
| 15 × 4.5-2 | 3.25 | 385 | 122 |
| 16 × 6-8 | 4.33 | 425 | 152 |
| 18 × 7-8 (1) | 4.33 | 462 | 173 |
| 21 × 4 | 2.32 | 565 | 113 |
| 21 × 8-9 | 6.00 | 535 | 200 |
| 23 × 9-10 | 6.50 | 595 | 225 |
| 22 × 4.5 | 3.11 | 595 | 132 |
| 23 × 5 | 3.75 | 635 | 155 |
| 25 × 6 | 3.75 | 680 | 170 |
| 27 × 6 | 4.33 | 758 | 188 |
| 27 × 10-12 | 8.00 | 690 | 255 |
| 28 × 6 | 3.75 | 760 | 170 |
| 28 × 9-15 | 7.00 | 707 | 216 |
| (8.15-15) | 7.00 | 707 | 216 |
| 29 × 7 | 5.00 | 809 | 211 |
| 29 × 8 | 6.00 | 809 | 243 |
| 9.00-15 | 6.00 | 840 | 249 |
| 2.50-15 | 7.50 | 735 | 250 |
| 3.00-15 | 8.00 | 840 | 300 |
| (1) Also marked 18 × 7. | (1) Also marked 18 × 7. | (1) Also marked 18 × 7. | (1) Also marked 18 × 7. |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Outer diameter (in mm) | Section width (in mm) |
|---|---|---|---|
| 6.50 R 10 | 5.00 | 588 | 177 |
| 7.00 R 15 | 5.50 | 746 | 197 |
| 7.50 R 10 | 5.50 | 645 | 207 |
| 15 × 4.5 R 8 | 3.25 | 385 | 122 |
| 16 × 6 R 8 | 4.33 | 425 | 152 |
| 18 × 7 R 8 | 4.33 | 462 | 173 |
| 560 × 165 R 11 | 5.00 | 560 | 175 |
| 680 × 180 R 15 | 5.00 | 680 | 189 | Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

| Tyre size designation | Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Section width (in mm) (1) | Outer diameter | Outer diameter |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Diagonal | Radial | Measuring-rim width (in inches) | Section width (in mm) (1) | Highway tread (in mm) (2) | Mud and snow (in mm) (2) |
| 6.00-16 LT | 6.00 R 16 LT | 4.50 | 173 | 732 | 743 |
| 6.50-16 LT | 6.50 R 16 LT | 4.50 | 182 | 755 | 767 |
| 6.70-15 LT | 6.70 R 15 LT | 5.00 | 191 | 722 | 733 |
| 7.00-13 LT | 7.00 R 13 LT | 5.00 | 187 | 647 | 658 |
| 7.00-14 LT | 7.00 R 14 LT | 5.00 | 187 | 670 | 681 |
| 7.00-15 LT | 7.00 R 15 LT | 5.50 | 202 | 752 | 763 |
| 7.00-16 LT | 7.00 R 16 LT | 5.50 | 202 | 778 | 788 |
| 7.10-15 LT | 7.10 R 15 LT | 5.00 | 199 | 738 | 749 |
| 7.50-15 LT | 7.50 R 15 LT | 6.00 | 220 | 782 | 794 |
| 7.50-16 LT | 7.50 R 16 LT | 6.00 | 220 | 808 | 819 |
| 8.25-16 LT | 8.25 R 16 LT | 6.50 | 241 | 859 | 869 |
| 9.00-16 LT | 9.00 R 16 LT | 6.50 | 257 | 890 | 903 |
| D78-14 LT | DR 78-14 LT | 5.00 | 192 | 661 | 672 |
| E78-14 LT | ER 78-14 LT | 5.50 | 199 | 667 | 678 |
| C78-15 LT | CR 78-15 LT | 5.00 | 187 | 672 | 683 |
| G78-15 LT | GR 78-15 LT | 6.00 | 212 | 711 | 722 |
| H78-15 LT | HR 78-15 LT | 6.00 | 222 | 727 | 739 |
| L78-15 LT | LR 78-15 LT | 6.50 | 236 | 749 | 760 |
| F78-16 LT | FR 78-16 LT | 5.50 | 202 | 721 | 732 |
| H78-16 LT | HR 78-16 LT | 6.00 | 222 | 753 | 764 |
| L78-16 LT | LR 78-16 LT | 6.50 | 236 | 775 | 786 |
| (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. |

| Tyre size designation | Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Outer diameter | Outer diameter |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Diagonal | Radial | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Highway tread (mm) (2) | Mud and snow (mm) (2) |
| 7-14.5 LT | — | 6.00 | 185 | 677 | — |
| 8-14.5 LT | — | 6.00 | 203 | 707 | — |
| 9-14.5 LT | — | 7.00 | 241 | 711 | — |
| 7-17.5 LT | 7 R 17.5 LT | 5.25 | 189 | 758 | 769 |
| 8-17.5 LT | 8 R 17.5 LT | 5.25 | 199 | 788 | 799 |
TABLE 3
Commercial vehicle tyres
RADIAL NORMAL SECTION SIZES MOUNTED ON 15o-TAPERED RIMS (DROP-CENTRE)
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
8 R 17.5
6.00
784
208
8.5 R 17.5
6.00
802
215
9 R 17.5
6.75
820
230
9.5 R 17.5
6.75
842
240
10 R 17.5
7.50
858
254
11 R 17.5
8.25
900
279
7 R 19.5
5.25
800
185
8 R 19.5
6.00
856
208
8 R 22.5
6.00
936
208
9 R 19.5
6.75
894
230
9 R 22.5
6.75
970
230
9.5 R 19.5
6.75
916
240
10 R 19.5
7.50
936
254
10 R 22.5
7.50
1 020 
254
11 R 19.5
8.25
970
279
11 R 22.5
8.25
1 050 
279
11 R 24.5
8.25
1 100 
279
12 R 19.5
9.00
1 008 
300
12 R 22.5
9.00
1 084 
300
13 R 22.5
9.75
1 124 
320
TABLE 4
DIAGONAL NORMAL SECTION SIZES MOUNTED ON 15o-TAPERED RIMS (DROP-CENTRE)
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
8-19.5
6.00
856
208
9-19.5
6.75
894
230
9-22.5
6.75
970
230
10-22.5
7.50
1 020 
254
11-22.5
8.25
1 054 
279
11-24.5
8.25
1 100 
279
12-22.5
9.00
1 084 
300
Tolerance: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

TABLE 5
Commercial vehicle tyres
RADIAL 'WIDE BASE' SIZES MOUNTED ON 15o-TAPERED RIMS (DROP-CENTRE)
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
14 R 19.5
10.50
962
349
15 R 19.5
11.75
998
387
15 R 22.5
11.75
1 074 
387
16.5 R 19.5
13.00
1 046 
425
16.5 R 22.5
13.00
1 122 
425
18 R 19.5
14.00
1 082 
457
18 R 22.5
14.00
1 158 
457
19.5 R 19.5
15.00
1 134 
495
21 R 22.5
16.50
1 246 
540
TABLE 6
DIAGONAL 'WIDE BASE' SIZES MOUNTED ON 15o-TAPERED RIMS (DROP-CENTRE)
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
15-19.5
11.75
1 004 
387
15-22.5
11.75
1 080 
387
16.5-19.5
13.00
1 052 
425
16.5-22.5
13.00
1 128 
425
18-19.5
14.00
1 080 
457
18-22.5
14.00
1 156 
457
19.5-19.5
15.00
1 138 
495
21-22.5
16.50
1 246 
540
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. TABLE 7
Commercial vehicle tyres
RADIAL '80' SERIES MOUNTED ON 5o TAPERED OR FLAT-BASE RIMS
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
12/80 R 20
8.50
1 008 
305
13/80 R 20
9.00
1 048 
326
14/80 R 20
10.00
1 090 
350
14/80 R 24
10.00
1 192 
350
14.75/80 R 20
10.00
1 124 
370
15.5/80 R 20
10.00
1 158 
384
TABLE 8
RADIAL '70' SERIES MOUNTED ON 15o TAPERED RIMS (DROP-CENTRE)
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
9/70 R 22.5
6.75
892
229
10/70 R 22.5
7.50
928
254
11/70 R 22.5
8.25
962
279
12/70 R 22.5
9.00
999
305
13/70 R 22.5
9.75
1 033 
330
TABLE 9
RADIAL '80' SERIES MOUNTED ON 15o TAPERED RIMS (DROP-CENTRE)
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
12/80 R 22.5
9.00
1 046 
305
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. TABLE 10
Commercial vehicle tyres
RADIAL TYRES FOR LIGHT COMMERCIAL VEHICLES MOUNTED ON RIM OF 16″ DIAMETER AND OVER
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
6.00 R 16 C
4.50
728
170
6.00 R 18 C
4.00
782
165
6.50 R 16 C
4.50
742
176
6.50 R 17 C
4.50
772
176
6.50 R 17 LC
4.50
726
166
6.50 R 20 C
5.00
860
181
7.00 R 16 C
5.50
778
198
7.50 R 16 C
6.00
802
210
7.50 R 17 C
6.00
852
210
TABLE 11
DIAGONAL TYRES FOR LIGHT COMMERCIAL VEHICLES MOUNTED ON RIM OF 16″ DIAMETER AND OVER
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
6.00-16 C
4.50
730
170
6.00-18 C
4.00
786
165
6.00-20 C
5.00
842
172
6.50-20 C
4.50
748
176
6.50-17 LC
4.50
726
166
6.50-20 C
5.00
870
181
7.00-16 C
5.50
778
198
7.00-18 C
5.50
848
198
7.00-20 C
5.50
898
198
7.50-16 C
6.00
806
210
7.50-17 C
6.00
852
210
8.25-16 C
6.50
860
234
8.90-16 C
6.50
885
250
9.00-16 C
6.50
900
252
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.TABLE 12Commercial vehicle tyres
RADIAL TYRES FOR LIGHT COMMERCIAL VEHICLES MOUNTED ON 5o TAPERED RIMS
Rim diameter 12″ — 15″
(DROP-CENTRE)
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
'Super balloon' series
5.60 R 12 C
4.00
570
150
6.40 R 13 C
5.00
648
172
6.70 R 13 C
5.00
660
180
6.70 R 14 C
5.00
688
180
6.70 R 15 C
5.00
712
180
7.00 R 15 C
5.50
744
195
'Low section' series
6.50 R 14 C
5.00
640
170
7.00 R 14 C
5.00
650
180
7.50 R 14 C
5.50
686
195
TYRES FOR LIGHT COMMERCIAL VEHICLES MOUNTED ON 15o TAPERED RIMS (DROP-CENTRE)
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
7 R 17.5 C
5.25
752
185
8 R 17.5 C
6.00
784
208
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. TABLE 13
Commercial vehicle tyres
DIAGONAL TYRES FOR LIGHT COMMERCIAL VEHICLES MOUNTED ON 5o TAPERED RIMS (DROP CENTRE)
Rim diameter 12″ — 15″
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
'Super balloon' series
5.20-12 C
3.50
560
136
5.60-12 C
4.00
572
148
5.60-13 C
4.00
598
148
5.90-13 C
4.50
616
158
5.90-14 C
4.50
642
158
5.90-15 C
4.50
668
158
6.40-13 C
5.00
640
172
6.40-14 C
5.00
666
172
6.40-15 C
5.00
692
172
6.40-16 C
4.50
748
172
6.70-13 C
5.00
662
180
6.70-14 C
5.00
688
180
6.70-15 C
5.00
714
180
'Low section' series
5.50-12 C
4.00
552
142
6.00-12 C
4.50
574
158
6.00-14 C
4.50
626
158
6.50-14 C
5.00
650
172
6.50-15 C
5.00
676
172
7.00-14 C
5.00
668
182
7.50-14 C
5.50
692
192
'Balloon' series
7.00-15 C
5.50
752
198
7.50-15 C
6.00
780
210
'Millimetric' series
125-12 C
3.50
514
127
165-15 C
4.50
652
167
185-14 C
5.50
654
188
195-14 C
5.50
670
198
245-16 C
7.00
798
248
17-15 C or
5.00
678
178
17-380 C
5.00
678
178
17-400 C
19 × 400 mm
702
186
19-400 C
19 × 400 mm
736
200
21-400 C
19 × 400 mm
772
216
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. TABLE 14
Commercial vehicle tyres
RADIAL TYRES FOR LIGHT COMMERCIAL VEHICLES MOUNTED ON 5o TAPERED RIMS (DROP-CENTRE) RIMS
'Millimetric' series
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
125 R 12 C
3.50
510
127
125 R 13 C
3.50
536
127
125 R 14 C
3.00
562
127
125 R 15 C
3.50
588
127
135 R 12 C
4.00
522
137
135 R 13 C
4.00
548
137
135 R 14 C
4.00
574
137
135 R 15 C
4.00
600
137
145 R 10 C
4.00
492
147
145 R 12 C
4.00
542
147
145 R 13 C
4.00
566
147
145 R 14 C
4.00
590
147
145 R 15 C
4.00
616
147
155 R 12 C
4.50
550
157
155 R 13 C
4.50
578
157
155 R 14 C
4.50
604
157
155 R 15 C
4.50
630
157
155 R 16 C
4.50
656
157
165 R 13 C
4.50
596
167
165 R 14 C
4.50
622
167
165 R 15 C
4.50
646
167
165 R 16 C
4.50
672
167
175 R 13 C
5.00
608
178
175 R 14 C
5.00
634
178
175 R 15 C
5.00
660
178
175 R 16 C
5.00
684
178
185 R 13 C
5.50
624
188
185 R 14 C
5.50
650
188
185 R 15 C
5.50
674
188
185 R 16 C
5.50
700
188
195 R 14 C
5.50
666
198
195 R 15 C
5.50
690
198
195 R 16 C
5.50
716
198
205 R 14 C
6.00
686
208
205 R 15 C
6.00
710
208
205 R 16 C
6.00
736
208
215 R 14 C
6.00
700
218
215 R 15 C
6.00
724
218
215 R 16 C
6.00
750
218
225 R 14 C
6.50
714
228
225 R 15 C
6.50
738
228
225 R 16 C
6.50
764
228
235 R 14 C
6.50
728
238
235 R 15 C
6.50
752
238
235 R 16 C
6.50
778
238
17 R 15 C or
5.00
678
178
17 R 380 C
5.00
678
178
17 R 400 C
19 × 400 mm
698
186
19 R 400 C
19 × 400 mm
728
200
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.
TABLE 14
Commercial vehicle tyres
RADIAL TYRES FOR LIGHT COMMERCIAL VEHICLES MOUNTED ON 5o TAPERED RIMS (DROP-CENTRE) RIMS
'Millimetric' series
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
125 R 12 C
3.50
510
127
125 R 13 C
3.50
536
127
125 R 14 C
3.00
562
127
125 R 15 C
3.50
588
127
135 R 12 C
4.00
522
137
135 R 13 C
4.00
548
137
135 R 14 C
4.00
574
137
135 R 15 C
4.00
600
137
145 R 10 C
4.00
492
147
145 R 12 C
4.00
542
147
145 R 13 C
4.00
566
147
145 R 14 C
4.00
590
147
145 R 15 C
4.00
616
147
155 R 12 C
4.50
550
157
155 R 13 C
4.50
578
157
155 R 14 C
4.50
604
157
155 R 15 C
4.50
630
157
155 R 16 C
4.50
656
157
165 R 13 C
4.50
596
167
165 R 14 C
4.50
622
167
165 R 15 C
4.50
646
167
165 R 16 C
4.50
672
167
175 R 13 C
5.00
608
178
175 R 14 C
5.00
634
178
175 R 15 C
5.00
660
178
175 R 16 C
5.00
684
178
185 R 13 C
5.50
624
188
185 R 14 C
5.50
650
188
185 R 15 C
5.50
674
188
185 R 16 C
5.50
700
188
195 R 14 C
5.50
666
198
195 R 15 C
5.50
690
198
195 R 16 C
5.50
716
198
205 R 14 C
6.00
686
208
205 R 15 C
6.00
710
208
205 R 16 C
6.00
736
208
215 R 14 C
6.00
700
218
215 R 15 C
6.00
724
218
215 R 16 C
6.00
750
218
225 R 14 C
6.50
714
228
225 R 15 C
6.50
738
228
225 R 16 C
6.50
764
228
235 R 14 C
6.50
728
238
235 R 15 C
6.50
752
238
235 R 16 C
6.50
778
238
17 R 15 C or
5.00
678
178
17 R 380 C
5.00
678
178
17 R 400 C
19 × 400 mm
698
186
19 R 400 C
19 × 400 mm
728
200
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.

TABLE 15
Commercial vehicle tyres
DIAGONAL WIDE-BASE TYRES FOR MULTIPURPOSE TRUCKS ON HIGHWAY, OFF-THE-ROAD AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
10.5-18 MPT
9
905
270
10.5-20 MPT
9
955
270
12.5-18 MPT
11
990
325
12.5-20 MPT
11
1 040 
325
14.5-20 MPT
11
1 095 
355
14.5-24 MPT
11
1 195 
355
7.50-18 MPT
5.50
885
208
TABLE 16
RADIAL WIDE-BASE TYRES FOR MULTIPURPOSE TRUCKS ON HIGHWAY, OFF-THE-ROAD AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
10.5 R 20 MPT
9
955
276
12.5 R 20 MPT
11
1 040 
330
14.5 R 20 MPT
11
1 095 
362
14.5 R 24 MPT
11
1 195 
362
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. TABLE 17
Commercial vehicle tyres
RADIAL 'FREE-ROLLING' TYRES IN HIGHWAY SERVICE
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
5.00 R 8
3.00
467
132
6.00 R 9
4.00
540
160
7.00 R 12
5.00
672
192
7.50 R 15
6.00
772
212
8.25 R 15
6.50
836
234
10.00 R 15
7.50
918
275
TABLE 18
DIAGONAL 'FREE-ROLLING' TYRES IN HIGHWAY SERVICE
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
6.00-9
4.00
540
160
7.00-12
5.00
672
192
7.00-15
5.00
746
192
7.50-15
6.00
772
212
8.25-15
6.50
836
234
10.00-15
7.50
918
275
200-15
6.50
730
205
TABLE 19
DIAGONAL '75' SERIES MOUNTED ON 15o TAPERED RIMS
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
7.25/75-16.5 or 7.25-16.5
5.25
695
182
8.00/75-16.5 or 8.00-16.5
6.00
724
203
8.75/75-16.5 or 8.75-16.5
6.75
752
224
9.50/75-16.5 or 9.50-16.5
7.50
781
245
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II.TABLE 20Commercial vehicle tyres
DIAGONAL
DIAGONAL AND RADIAL TYRES MOUNTED ON FLAT BASE OR DIVIDED RIMS
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
3.00-4
2.10
255
81
4.00-4
2.50
312
107
4.00-8
2.50
414
107
5.00-8
3.00
467
132
6.50-10
5.00
588
177
7.00-9
5.00
562
174
7.50-10
5.50
645
207
8.25-10
6.50
698
240
10.50-13
6.00
889
275
10.50-16
6.00
965
275
11.00-16
6.00
952
272
14.00-16
10.00
1 139 
375
15 × 4.5-2
3.25
385
122
16 × 6-8
4.33
425
152
18 × 7-8 (1) 4.33
462
173
21 × 4
2.32
565
113
21 × 8-9
6.00
535
200
23 × 9-10
6.50
595
225
22 × 4.5
3.11
595
132
23 × 5
3.75
635
155
25 × 6
3.75
680
170
27 × 6
4.33
758
188
27 × 10-12
8.00
690
255
28 × 6
3.75
760
170
28 × 9-15
7.00
707
216
(8.15-15)
7.00
707
216
29 × 7
5.00
809
211
29 × 8
6.00
809
243
9.00-15
6.00
840
249
2.50-15
7.50
735
250
3.00-15
8.00
840
300
(1) Also marked 18 × 7. 
RADIAL
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Outer diameter
(in mm)
Section width
(in mm)
6.50 R 10
5.00
588
177
7.00 R 15
5.50
746
197
7.50 R 10
5.50
645
207
15 × 4.5 R 8
3.25
385
122
16 × 6 R 8
4.33
425
152
18 × 7 R 8
4.33
462
173
560 × 165 R 11
5.00
560
175
680 × 180 R 15
5.00
680
189
Tolerances: see sections 6.1.4 and 6.1.5 of Annex II. TABLE 21
Tyres for trucks, buses, trailers and multipurpose passenger vehicles in normal highway service
DIAGONAL AND RADIAL TYRES MOUNTED ON 5o DROP-CENTRE OR SEMI-DROP-CENTRE RIMS
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(in inches)
Section width
(in mm) (1) Outer diameter
Diagonal
Radial
Highway tread
(in mm) (2) Mud and snow
(in mm) (2) 6.00-16 LT
6.00 R 16 LT
4.50
173
732
743
6.50-16 LT
6.50 R 16 LT
4.50
182
755
767
6.70-15 LT
6.70 R 15 LT
5.00
191
722
733
7.00-13 LT
7.00 R 13 LT
5.00
187
647
658
7.00-14 LT
7.00 R 14 LT
5.00
187
670
681
7.00-15 LT
7.00 R 15 LT
5.50
202
752
763
7.00-16 LT
7.00 R 16 LT
5.50
202
778
788
7.10-15 LT
7.10 R 15 LT
5.00
199
738
749
7.50-15 LT
7.50 R 15 LT
6.00
220
782
794
7.50-16 LT
7.50 R 16 LT
6.00
220
808
819
8.25-16 LT
8.25 R 16 LT
6.50
241
859
869
9.00-16 LT
9.00 R 16 LT
6.50
257
890
903
D78-14 LT
DR 78-14 LT
5.00
192
661
672
E78-14 LT
ER 78-14 LT
5.50
199
667
678
C78-15 LT
CR 78-15 LT
5.00
187
672
683
G78-15 LT
GR 78-15 LT
6.00
212
711
722
H78-15 LT
HR 78-15 LT
6.00
222
727
739
L78-15 LT
LR 78-15 LT
6.50
236
749
760
F78-16 LT
FR 78-16 LT
5.50
202
721
732
H78-16 LT
HR 78-16 LT
6.00
222
753
764
L78-16 LT
LR 78-16 LT
6.50
236
775
786
(1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. TABLE 22Tyres for trucks, buses, trailers and multipurpose passenger vehicles in normal highway service
DIAGONAL AND RADIAL TYRES MOUNTED ON 15o DROP-CENTRE RIMS
TABLE 22.1
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(inches)
Section width
(mm) (1) Outer diameter
Diagonal
Radial
Highway tread
(mm) (2) Mud and snow
(mm) (2) 7-14.5 LT
—
6.00
185
677
—
8-14.5 LT
—
6.00
203
707
—
9-14.5 LT
—
7.00
241
711
—
7-17.5 LT
7 R 17.5 LT
5.25
189
758
769
8-17.5 LT
8 R 17.5 LT
5.25
199
788
799
(1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameters and the nominal rim diameters. TABLE 22.2
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(inches)
Section width
(mm) (1) Outer diameter
Diagonal
Radial
Highway tread
(mm) (2) Mud and snow
(mm) (2) 8.00-16.5 LT
8.00 R 16.5 LT
6.00
203
720
730
8.75-16.5 LT
8.75 R 16.5 LT
6.75
222
748
759
9.50-16.5 LT
9.50 R 16.5 LT
6.75
241
776
787
10-16.5 LT
10 R 16.5 LT
8.25
264
762
773
10-17.5 LT
10 R 17.5 LT
8.25
264
787
798
12-16.5 LT
12 R 16.5 LT
9.75
307
818
831
30 × 9.50-16.5 LT
30 × 9.50 R 16.5 LT
7.50
240
750
761
31 × 10.50-16.5 LT
31 × 10.50 R 16.5 LT
8.25
266
775
787
33 × 10.50-16.5 LT
33 × 12.50 R 16.5 LT
9.75
315
826
838
37 × 10.50-16.5 LT
37 × 14.50 R 16.5 LT
11.25
365
928
939
(1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 7 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters.
| Tyre size designation | Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Outer diameter | Outer diameter |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 8-17.5 LT | 8 R 17.5 LT | 5.25 | 199 | 788 | 799 |
| (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameters and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameters and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameters and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameters and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameters and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameters and the nominal rim diameters. |

| Tyre size designation | Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Outer diameter | Outer diameter |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Diagonal | Radial | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Highway tread (mm) (2) | Mud and snow (mm) (2) |
| 8.00-16.5 LT | 8.00 R 16.5 LT | 6.00 | 203 | 720 | 730 |
| 8.75-16.5 LT | 8.75 R 16.5 LT | 6.75 | 222 | 748 | 759 |
| 9.50-16.5 LT | 9.50 R 16.5 LT | 6.75 | 241 | 776 | 787 |
| 10-16.5 LT | 10 R 16.5 LT | 8.25 | 264 | 762 | 773 |
| 10-17.5 LT | 10 R 17.5 LT | 8.25 | 264 | 787 | 798 |
| 12-16.5 LT | 12 R 16.5 LT | 9.75 | 307 | 818 | 831 |
| 30 × 9.50-16.5 LT | 30 × 9.50 R 16.5 LT | 7.50 | 240 | 750 | 761 |
| 31 × 10.50-16.5 LT | 31 × 10.50 R 16.5 LT | 8.25 | 266 | 775 | 787 |
| 33 × 10.50-16.5 LT | 33 × 12.50 R 16.5 LT | 9.75 | 315 | 826 | 838 |
| 37 × 10.50-16.5 LT | 37 × 14.50 R 16.5 LT | 11.25 | 365 | 928 | 939 |
| (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 7 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 7 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 7 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 7 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 7 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 7 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. |

| Tyre size designation | Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Outer diameter | Outer diameter | Outer diameter |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Diagonal | Radial | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Highway tread (mm) (2) | Heavy tread (mm) (2) | Mud and snow (mm) (2) |
| Normal-section tyres | Normal-section tyres | Normal-section tyres | Normal-section tyres | Normal-section tyres | Normal-section tyres | Normal-section tyres |
| 7-22.5 | 7 R 22.5 | 5.25 | 178 | 878 | — | 894 |
| 8-19.5 | 8 R 19.5 | 6.00 | 203 | 859 | — | 876 |
| 8-22.5 | 8 R 22.5 | 6.00 | 203 | 935 | — | 952 |
| 9-22.5 | 9 R 22.5 | 6.75 | 229 | 974 | 982 | 992 |
| 10-22.5 | 10 R 22.5 | 7.50 | 254 | 1 019 | 1 031 | 1 038 |
| 11-22.5 | 11 R 22.5 | 8.25 | 279 | 1 054 | 1 067 | 1 037 |
| 11-24.5 | 11 R 24.5 | 8.25 | 279 | 1 104 | 1 118 | 1 123 |
| 12-22.5 | 12 R 22.5 | 9.00 | 300 | 1 085 | 1 099 | 1 104 |
| 12-24.5 | 12 R 24.5 | 9.00 | 300 | 1 135 | 1 150 | 1 155 |
| 12.5-22.5 | 12.5 R 22.5 | 9.00 | 302 | 1 085 | 1 099 | 1 104 |
| 12.5-22.5 | 12.5 R 24.5 | 9.00 | 302 | 1 135 | 1 150 | 1 155 |
| Wide-base tyres | Wide-base tyres | Wide-base tyres | Wide-base tyres | Wide-base tyres | Wide-base tyres | Wide-base tyres |
| 14-17.5 | 14 R 17.5 | 10.50 | 349 | 907 | — | 921 |
| 15-19.5 | 15 R 19.5 | 11.75 | 389 | 1 005 | — | 1 019 |
| 15-22.5 | 15 R 22.5 | 11.75 | 389 | 1 082 | — | 1 095 |
| 16.5-19.5 | 16.5 R 19.5 | 13.00 | 425 | 1 052 | — | 1 068 |
| 16.5-22.5 | 16.5 R 22.5 | 13.00 | 425 | 1 128 | — | 1 144 |
| 18-19.5 | 18 R 19.5 | 14.00 | 457 | 1 080 | — | 1 096 |
| 18-22.5 | 18 R 22.5 | 14.00 | 457 | 1 158 | — | 1 172 |
| 19.5-19.5 | 19.5 R 19.5 | 15.00 | 495 | 1 138 | — | 1 156 |
| (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 5 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 5 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 5 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 5 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 5 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 5 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 5 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. |

| Tyre size designation | Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Outer diameter | Outer diameter | Outer diameter |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Diagonal | Radial | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Highway tread (mm) (2) | Heavy tread (mm) (2) | Mud and snow (mm) (2) |
| — | 8R14LT | 7.00 | 216 | 667 | — | — |
| 9-15LT | — | 8.00 | 254 | 744 | 755 | — |
| 10-15LT | 10R15LT | 8.00 | 264 | 773 | 783 | — |
| 10-16LT | — | 8.00 | 264 | 798 | 809 | — |
| 11-14LT | — | 8.00 | 279 | 752 | 763 | — |
| 11-15LT | 11R15LT | 8.00 | 279 | 777 | 788 | — |
| 11-16LT | — | 8.00 | 279 | 803 | 813 | — |
| 12-15LT | — | 10.00 | 318 | 823 | 834 | — |
| — | 9R15LT | 8.00 | 254 | 744 | 755 | 752 |
| 24 × 7.50-13LT | 24 × 7.50R13LT | 6.00 | 191 | 597 | 609 | 604 |
| 27 × 8.50-14LT | 27 × 8.50-14LT | 7.00 | 218 | 674 | 685 | 680 |
| 28 × 8.50-15LT | 28 × 8.50-15LT | 7.00 | 218 | 699 | 711 | 705 |
| 29 × 9.50-15LT | 29 × 9.50-15LT | 7.50 | 240 | 724 | 736 | 731 |
| 30 × 9.50-15LT | 30 × 9.50-15LT | 7.50 | 240 | 750 | 761 | 756 |
| 31 × 10.50-15LT | 31 × 10.50-15LT | 8.50 | 268 | 775 | 787 | 781 |
| 31 × 11.50-15LT | 31 × 11.50-15LT | 9.00 | 290 | 775 | 787 | 781 |
| 32 × 11.50-15LT | 32 × 11.50-15LT | 9.00 | 290 | 801 | 812 | 807 |
| 33 × 12.50-15LT | 33 × 12.50-15LT | 10.00 | 318 | 826 | 838 | 832 |
| 35 × 12.50-15LT | 35 × 12.50-15LT | 10.00 | 318 | 877 | 888 | 883 |
| 37 × 12.50-15LT | 37 × 12.50-15LT | 10.00 | 318 | 928 | 939 | 934 |
| 31 × 13.50-15LT | 31 × 13.50-15LT | 11.00 | 345 | 775 | 787 | 781 |
| 37 × 14.50-15LT | 37 × 14.50-15LT | 12.00 | 372 | 928 | 939 | 934 |
| 31 × 15.50-15LT | 31 × 15.50-15LT | 12.00 | 390 | 775 | 787 | 781 |
(2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. TABLE 23
Tyres for trucks, buses, trailers in normal highway service
DIAGONAL AND RADIAL TYRES MOUNTED ON 15o DROP-CENTRE RIMS
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(inches)
Section width
(mm) (1) Outer diameter
Diagonal
Radial
Highway tread
(mm) (2) Heavy tread
(mm) (2) Mud and snow
(mm) (2) Normal-section tyres
7-22.5
7 R 22.5
5.25
178
878
—
894
8-19.5
8 R 19.5
6.00
203
859
—
876
8-22.5
8 R 22.5
6.00
203
935
—
952
9-22.5
9 R 22.5
6.75
229
974
982
992
10-22.5
10 R 22.5
7.50
254
1 019 
1 031 
1 038 
11-22.5
11 R 22.5
8.25
279
1 054 
1 067 
1 037 
11-24.5
11 R 24.5
8.25
279
1 104 
1 118 
1 123 
12-22.5
12 R 22.5
9.00
300
1 085 
1 099 
1 104 
12-24.5
12 R 24.5
9.00
300
1 135 
1 150 
1 155 
12.5-22.5
12.5 R 22.5
9.00
302
1 085 
1 099 
1 104 
12.5-22.5
12.5 R 24.5
9.00
302
1 135 
1 150 
1 155 
Wide-base tyres
14-17.5
14 R 17.5
10.50
349
907
—
921
15-19.5
15 R 19.5
11.75
389
1 005 
—
1 019 
15-22.5
15 R 22.5
11.75
389
1 082 
—
1 095 
16.5-19.5
16.5 R 19.5
13.00
425
1 052 
—
1 068 
16.5-22.5
16.5 R 22.5
13.00
425
1 128 
—
1 144 
18-19.5
18 R 19.5
14.00
457
1 080 
—
1 096 
18-22.5
18 R 22.5
14.00
457
1 158 
—
1 172 
19.5-19.5
19.5 R 19.5
15.00
495
1 138 
—
1 156 
(1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 5 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. TABLE 24
Tyres for trucks, buses, trailers in normal highway service
DIAGONAL AND RADIAL TYRES MOUNTED ON 5o DROP-CENTRE RIMS
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(inches)
Section width
(mm) (1) Outer diameter
Diagonal
Radial
Highway tread
(mm) (2) Heavy tread
(mm) (2) Mud and snow
(mm) (2) —
8R14LT
7.00
216
667
—
—
9-15LT
—
8.00
254
744
755
—
10-15LT
10R15LT
8.00
264
773
783
—
10-16LT
—
8.00
264
798
809
—
11-14LT
—
8.00
279
752
763
—
11-15LT
11R15LT
8.00
279
777
788
—
11-16LT
—
8.00
279
803
813
—
12-15LT
—
10.00
318
823
834
—
—
9R15LT
8.00
254
744
755
752
24 × 7.50-13LT
24 × 7.50R13LT
6.00
191
597
609
604
27 × 8.50-14LT
27 × 8.50-14LT
7.00
218
674
685
680
28 × 8.50-15LT
28 × 8.50-15LT
7.00
218
699
711
705
29 × 9.50-15LT
29 × 9.50-15LT
7.50
240
724
736
731
30 × 9.50-15LT
30 × 9.50-15LT
7.50
240
750
761
756
31 × 10.50-15LT
31 × 10.50-15LT
8.50
268
775
787
781
31 × 11.50-15LT
31 × 11.50-15LT
9.00
290
775
787
781
32 × 11.50-15LT
32 × 11.50-15LT
9.00
290
801
812
807
33 × 12.50-15LT
33 × 12.50-15LT
10.00
318
826
838
832
35 × 12.50-15LT
35 × 12.50-15LT
10.00
318
877
888
883
37 × 12.50-15LT
37 × 12.50-15LT
10.00
318
928
939
934
31 × 13.50-15LT
31 × 13.50-15LT
11.00
345
775
787
781
37 × 14.50-15LT
37 × 14.50-15LT
12.00
372
928
939
934
31 × 15.50-15LT
31 × 15.50-15LT
12.00
390
775
787
781
(1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. TABLE 25
Tyres for trucks, buses and trailers in normal highway service
DIAGONAL AND RADIAL TYRES MOUNTED ON MULTI-PIECE BYMS
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(inches)
Section width
(mm) (1) Outer diameter
Diagonal
Radhal
Highway tread
(mm) (2) Heavy tread
(mm) (2) Mud and snow
(mm) (2) 6.50-20
6.50R20
5.00
184
878
—
1 049 
7.00-15TR
7.00R15TR
5.50
199
777
—
962
7.00-17
7.00R17
5.50
199
828
—
843
7.00-18
7.00R18
5.50
199
853
—
868
7.00-20
7.00R20
5.50
199
904
—
919
7.50-15TR
7.50R15TR
6.00
215
808
—
825
7.50-17
7.50R17
6.00
215
859
—
876
7.50-18
7.50R18
6.00
215
884
—
981
7.50-20
7.50R20
6.00
215
935
—
952
8.25-15TR
8.25R15TR
6.50
236
847
855
865
8.25-17
8.25R17
6.50
236
898
906
915
8.25-20
8.25R20
6.50
236
974
982
992
9.00-15TR
9.00R15TR
7.00
259
891
904
911
9.00-20
9.00R20
7.00
259
1 019 
1 031 
1 038 
10.00-15TR
10.00R15TR
7.50
278
927
940
946
10.00-20
10.00R20
7.50
278
1 054 
1 067 
1 073 
10.00-22
10.50R22
7.50
278
1 104 
1 118 
1 123 
11.00-15TR
11.00R15TR
8.00
293
958
972
977
11.00-20
11.00R20
8.00
293
1 085 
1 099 
1 104 
11.00-22
11.00R22
8.00
293
1 135 
1 150 
1 155 
11.00-24
11.00R24
8.00
293
1 186 
1 201 
1 206 
11.50-20
11.50R20
8.00
296
1 085 
1 099 
1 104 
11.50-22
11.50R22
8.00
296
1 135 
1 150 
1 155 
12.50-20
12.00R20
8.50
315
1 125 
—
1 146 
12.50-24
12.00R24
8.50
315
1 226 
—
1 247 
(1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. TABLE 26
Tyres for trucks and trailers in highway service at restricted speeds
DIAGONAL AND RADIAL TYRES MOUNTED ON MULTI-PIECE RIMS
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(inches)
Section width
(mm) (1) Outer diameter
Diagonal
Radial
Highway tread
(mm) (2) Mud and snow
(mm) (2) 13.00-20
13.00R20
9.00
340
1 177 
1 200 
14.00-20
14.00R20
10.00
375
1 241 
1 266 
14.00-24
14.00R24
10.00
375
1 343 
1 368 
(1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. TABLE 27
Tyres for mobile homes in highway service
DIAGONAL
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(inches)
Section width
(mm) (1) Outer diameter
(mm) (2) Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims
7-14.5 MH
6.00
185
677
8-14.5 MH
6.00
203
707
9-14.5 MH
7.00
241
711
Tyres mounted on 5o drop-centre and semi-drop-centre rims
7.00-15 MH
5.50
202
752
(1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. TABLE 28
Mining and logging tyres in intermittent highway service
DIAGONAL
Tyre size designation
Measuring-rim width
(inches)
Section width
(mm) (1) Outer diameter
Traction tread
(mm) (2) Extra tread
(mm) (2) Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims
7.00-20 ML
5.50
199
919
—
7.50-20 ML
6.00
215
952
—
8.25-20 ML
6.50
236
992
—
9.00-20 ML
7.00
259
1 038 
1 063 
10.00-20 ML
7.50
278
1 073 
1 099 
10.00-22 ML
7.50
278
1 123 
1 150 
10.00-20 ML
7.50
278
1 174 
1 200 
11.00-20 ML
8.00
293
1 104 
1 131 
11.00-22 ML
8.00
293
1 155 
1 182 
11.00-24 ML
8.00
293
1 206 
1 233 
12.00-20 ML
8.50
315
1 146 
1 173 
12.00-24 ML
8.50
315
1 247 
1 275 
13.00-20 ML
9.00
340
1 200 
—
13.00-24 ML
9.00
340
1 302 
—
14.00-20 ML
10.00
375
1 266 
—
14.00-24 ML
10.00
375
1 368 
—
Tyres mounted on full-tapered bead seat rims
11.00-25 ML
8.50
298
1 206 
1 233 
12.00-21 ML
8.50
315
1 146 
1 175 
12.00-25 ML
8.50
315
1 247 
1 275 
13.00-25 ML
10.00
351
1 302 
—
14.00-21 ML
10.00
375
1 266 
—
14.00-25 ML
10.00
375
1 368 
—
Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims
9-22.5 ML
6.75
229
992
—
10-22.5 ML
7.50
254
1 038 
—
11-22.5 ML
8.25
279
1 073 
—
11-24.5 ML
8.25
279
1 123 
—
12-22.5 ML
9.00
300
1 104 
—
Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims
14-17.5 ML
10.50
349
921
—
15-19.5 ML
11.75
389
1 019 
—
15-22.5 ML
11.75
389
1 095 
—
16.5-19.5 ML
13.00
425
1 068 
—
16.5-22.5 ML
13.00
425
1 144 
—
18-19.5 ML
14.00
457
1 096 
—
18-22.5 ML
14.00
457
1 172 
—
19.5-19.5 ML
15.00
495
1 156 
—
23-23.5 ML
17.00
584
1 320 
—
(1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. Appendix 6METHOD OF MEASURING TYRE DIMENSIONS
(see Annex II section 6.1.3)
PART A: PASSENGER CAR TYRES
1.1. The tyre is mounted on the measuring rim specified by the manufacturer pursuant to section 6.11 of Annex I, Appendix 1. 
1.2. The pressure in the tyre is then adjusted as follows: 1.2.1. in standard bias — belted tyres to 1,7 bar; 1.2.2. in diagonal (bias-ply) tyres to the pressure shown below (bar):
Ply-rating
Speed category
L, M, N
P, Q, R, S
T, U, H, V
4
1,7 
2,0 
—
6
2,1 
2,4 
2,6 
8
2,5 
2,8 
3,0 
1.2.3. in standard radial tyres to 1,8 bar,
1.2.4. in reinforced tyres to 2,3 bar, and
1.2.5. in T-type temporary-use spare tyres: to 4,2 bar.
| Tyre size designation | Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Outer diameter | Outer diameter | Outer diameter |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 31 × 15.50-15LT | 31 × 15.50-15LT | 12.00 | 390 | 775 | 787 | 781 |
| (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. |

| Tyre size designation | Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Outer diameter | Outer diameter | Outer diameter |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Diagonal | Radhal | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Highway tread (mm) (2) | Heavy tread (mm) (2) | Mud and snow (mm) (2) |
| 6.50-20 | 6.50R20 | 5.00 | 184 | 878 | — | 1 049 |
| 7.00-15TR | 7.00R15TR | 5.50 | 199 | 777 | — | 962 |
| 7.00-17 | 7.00R17 | 5.50 | 199 | 828 | — | 843 |
| 7.00-18 | 7.00R18 | 5.50 | 199 | 853 | — | 868 |
| 7.00-20 | 7.00R20 | 5.50 | 199 | 904 | — | 919 |
| 7.50-15TR | 7.50R15TR | 6.00 | 215 | 808 | — | 825 |
| 7.50-17 | 7.50R17 | 6.00 | 215 | 859 | — | 876 |
| 7.50-18 | 7.50R18 | 6.00 | 215 | 884 | — | 981 |
| 7.50-20 | 7.50R20 | 6.00 | 215 | 935 | — | 952 |
| 8.25-15TR | 8.25R15TR | 6.50 | 236 | 847 | 855 | 865 |
| 8.25-17 | 8.25R17 | 6.50 | 236 | 898 | 906 | 915 |
| 8.25-20 | 8.25R20 | 6.50 | 236 | 974 | 982 | 992 |
| 9.00-15TR | 9.00R15TR | 7.00 | 259 | 891 | 904 | 911 |
| 9.00-20 | 9.00R20 | 7.00 | 259 | 1 019 | 1 031 | 1 038 |
| 10.00-15TR | 10.00R15TR | 7.50 | 278 | 927 | 940 | 946 |
| 10.00-20 | 10.00R20 | 7.50 | 278 | 1 054 | 1 067 | 1 073 |
| 10.00-22 | 10.50R22 | 7.50 | 278 | 1 104 | 1 118 | 1 123 |
| 11.00-15TR | 11.00R15TR | 8.00 | 293 | 958 | 972 | 977 |
| 11.00-20 | 11.00R20 | 8.00 | 293 | 1 085 | 1 099 | 1 104 |
| 11.00-22 | 11.00R22 | 8.00 | 293 | 1 135 | 1 150 | 1 155 |
| 11.00-24 | 11.00R24 | 8.00 | 293 | 1 186 | 1 201 | 1 206 |
| 11.50-20 | 11.50R20 | 8.00 | 296 | 1 085 | 1 099 | 1 104 |
| 11.50-22 | 11.50R22 | 8.00 | 296 | 1 135 | 1 150 | 1 155 |
| 12.50-20 | 12.00R20 | 8.50 | 315 | 1 125 | — | 1 146 |
| 12.50-24 | 12.00R24 | 8.50 | 315 | 1 226 | — | 1 247 |
| (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. |

| Tyre size designation | Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Outer diameter | Outer diameter |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Diagonal | Radial | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Highway tread (mm) (2) | Mud and snow (mm) (2) |
| 13.00-20 | 13.00R20 | 9.00 | 340 | 1 177 | 1 200 |
| 14.00-20 | 14.00R20 | 10.00 | 375 | 1 241 | 1 266 |
| 14.00-24 | 14.00R24 | 10.00 | 375 | 1 343 | 1 368 |
| (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 6 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Outer diameter (mm) (2) |
|---|---|---|---|
| Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims |
| 7-14.5 MH | 6.00 | 185 | 677 |
| 8-14.5 MH | 6.00 | 203 | 707 |
| 9-14.5 MH | 7.00 | 241 | 711 |
| Tyres mounted on 5o drop-centre and semi-drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 5o drop-centre and semi-drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 5o drop-centre and semi-drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 5o drop-centre and semi-drop-centre rims |
| 7.00-15 MH | 5.50 | 202 | 752 |
| (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 8 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. |

| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Outer diameter | Outer diameter |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Traction tread (mm) (2) | Extra tread (mm) (2) |
| Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims |
| 7.00-20 ML | 5.50 | 199 | 919 | — |
| 7.50-20 ML | 6.00 | 215 | 952 | — |
| 8.25-20 ML | 6.50 | 236 | 992 | — |
| 9.00-20 ML | 7.00 | 259 | 1 038 | 1 063 |
| 10.00-20 ML | 7.50 | 278 | 1 073 | 1 099 |
| 10.00-22 ML | 7.50 | 278 | 1 123 | 1 150 |
1.2.2. in diagonal (bias-ply) tyres to the pressure shown below (bar):
Ply-rating
Speed category
L, M, N
P, Q, R, S
T, U, H, V
4
1,7 
2,0 
—
6
2,1 
2,4 
2,6 
8
2,5 
2,8 
3,0 
1.2.3. in standard radial tyres to 1,8 bar,
1.2.4. in reinforced tyres to 2,3 bar, and
1.2.5. in T-type temporary-use spare tyres: to 4,2 bar.

2. The tyre, mounted on its rim, is conditioned at the ambient room temperature for not less than 24 hours, with the exception referred to in section 6.2.3 of Annex II. 3. The pressure is readjusted to that specified in section 1.2. 4. The overall width is measured by caliper at six equally-spaced points, account being taken of the thickness of the protective ribs or bands. The highest measurement so obtained is taken as the overall width. 5. The outer diameter is determined by measuring the maximum circumference and dividing the figure so obtained by π (3,1416). PART B: COMMERCIAL VEHICLE TYRES 1. The tyre is mounted on the measuring rim specified by the manufacturer pursuant to section 6.11 of Appendix 1 to Annex I and is inflated to a pressure specified by the manufacturer pursuant to section 6.12 of Annex I, Appendix 1. 2. The tyre fitted on its rim is conditioned to the ambient temperature of the laboratory for at least 24 hours. 3. The pressure is readjusted to the value specified in section 1. 4. The overall width is measured by caliper at six equally-spaced points, account being taken of the thickness of the protective ribs or bands. The highest measurement so obtained is taken as the overall width. 5. The outer diameter is determined by measuring the maximum circumference and dividing the figure so obtained by π (3,1416). Appendix 7LOAD/SPEED TEST-PROCEDURE (
14
)
(see Annex II, section 6.2)PART A: PASSENGER CAR TYRES1. Preparing the tyre
1.1. A new tyre is mounted on the test rim specified by the manufacturer pursuant to section 6.11 of Annex I, Appendix 1. 
1.2. It is inflated to the appropriate pressure as given in the table below: Test pressure (bar)
Speed category
Diagonal (bias-ply) tyres
Radial tyres
Bias-belted tyres
Ply-rating
Standard
Reinforced
Standard
4
6
8
L, M, N
2,3 
2,7 
3,0 
2,4 
—
—
P, Q, R, S
2,6 
3,0 
3,3 
2,6 
3,0 
2,6 
T, U, H
2,8 
3,2 
3,5 
2,8 
3,2 
2,8 
V
3,0 
3,4 
3,7 
3,0 
—
—
T-type temporary use spare tyres: to 4,2 bars. 1.3. The manufacturer may request, giving reasons, the use of an inflation pressure differing from those under section 1.2. In such a case the tyre is inflated to that pressure (see section 6.14 of Appendix 1 to Annex I). 1.4. The tyre-and-wheel assembly is conditioned at test-room temperature for not less than three hours. 1.5. The tyre pressure is readjusted to that specified in section 1.2 or 1.3. 2. Carrying out the test
2.1. The tyre-and-wheel assembly is mounted on a test axle and pressed against the outer face of a smooth wheel 1,70 m ± 1 % or 2 m ± 1 % in diameter. 2.2. Apply to the test axle a load equal to 80 % of: 2.2.1. the maximum load rating equated to the load capacity index for tyres with speed symbols L to H inclusive: 2.2.2. the maximum load rating associated with a maximum speed of 240 km/h for tyres with speed symbol 'V' (see section 2.31.2 of Annex II). 2.3. Throughout the test the tyre pressure must not be corrected and the test load must be kept constant. 2.4. During the test the temperature in the test-room must be maintained at between 20 oC and 30 oC or at a higher temperature if the manufacturer agrees. 2.5. The test is carred out without interruption in conformity with the following particulars: 2.5.1. time taken to pass from zero speed to initial test speed: 10 minutes; 2.5.2. initial test speed: prescribed maximum speed for the type of tyre, less 40 km/h in the case of the smooth wheel having 1,70 m ± 1 % in diameter or less 30 km/h in the case of the smooth wheel having 2 m ± 1 % in diameter; 2.5.3. successive speed increments: 10 km/h;
2.5.4. duration of test at each speed step except the last: 10 minutes; 2.5.5. duration of test at last speed step: 20 minutes; 2.5.6. maximum test speed: prescribed maximum speed for the type of tyre, less 10 km/h in the case of the smooth wheel having 1,7 m ± 1 % in diameter or equal to prescribed maximum speed in the case of the smooth wheel having 2 m ± 1 % in diameter. 3. Equivalent test methods
If a method other than that described in section 2 is used, its equivalence must be demonstrated.PART B: COMMERCIAL VEHICLE TYRES (
15
)1. Preparing the tyre
1.1. Mount a new tyre on the test rim specified by the manufacturer pursuant to section 6.11 of Appendix 1 to Annex I. 1.2. Use a new inner tube or combination of inner tube, valve and flap (as required) when testing tyres with inner tubes. 1.3. Inflate the tyre to the pressure corresponding to the pressure index specified by the tyre manufacturer, pursuant to section 6.14 of Appendix 1 to Annex I. 1.4. Condition the tyre and wheel assembly at test room temperature for not less than three hours. 1.5. Readjust the tyre pressure to that specified in section 1.3. 2. Test procedure
2.1. Mount the tyre and wheel assembly on the test axle and press it against the outer face of a smooth power-driven test drum 1,70 m ± 1 % in diameter having a surface at least as wide as the tyre tread. 2.2. Apply to test axle a series of test loads expressed as a percentage of the load indicated in Appendix 2, opposite the load index moulded on the sidewall of the tyre, in accordance with the load/speed test programme shown in the Table below. When the tyre has load capacity indices for both single and twin utilization, the reference load for single utilization is taken as the basis for the test loads. 2.3. The tyre pressure must not be corrected throughout the test and the test load must be kept constant throughout each of the three test stages. 2.4. During the test the temperature in the test room must be maintained at between 20 oC and 30 oC or at a higher temperature if the manufacturer so agrees. 2.5. The load/speed test programme must be carried out without interruption. 3. Equivalent test methods
If a method other than that described in section 2 is used, its equivalence must be demonstrated. LOAD/SPEED TEST PROGRAMME
Load index
Tyre speed category symbol
Test-drum speed (rev/min) (1) Load placed on the wheel as a percentage of the load corresponding to the load index
Radial-ply tyre
Diagonal (bias-ply) tyre
7 h.
16 h.
24 h.
122 or more
F
100
100
66 %
84 %
101 %
G
125
100
J
150
125
K
175
150
L
200
—
M
225
—
121 or less
F
100
100
G
125
125
J
150
150
K
175
175
L
200
175
70 %
88 %
106 %
4 h.
6 h.
M
250
200
75 %
97 %
114 %
N
275
—
75 %
97 %
114 %
P
300
—
75 %
97 %
114 %
(1) 'Special-use' tyres (see section 2.1.3. of Annex II) should be tested at a speed equal to 85 % of the test-drum speed prescribed above for equivalent normal tyres.
| Tyre size designation | Measuring-rim width (inches) | Section width (mm) (1) | Outer diameter | Outer diameter |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 10.00-22 ML | 7.50 | 278 | 1 123 | 1 150 |
| 10.00-20 ML | 7.50 | 278 | 1 174 | 1 200 |
| 11.00-20 ML | 8.00 | 293 | 1 104 | 1 131 |
| 11.00-22 ML | 8.00 | 293 | 1 155 | 1 182 |
| 11.00-24 ML | 8.00 | 293 | 1 206 | 1 233 |
| 12.00-20 ML | 8.50 | 315 | 1 146 | 1 173 |
| 12.00-24 ML | 8.50 | 315 | 1 247 | 1 275 |
| 13.00-20 ML | 9.00 | 340 | 1 200 | — |
| 13.00-24 ML | 9.00 | 340 | 1 302 | — |
| 14.00-20 ML | 10.00 | 375 | 1 266 | — |
| 14.00-24 ML | 10.00 | 375 | 1 368 | — |
| Tyres mounted on full-tapered bead seat rims | Tyres mounted on full-tapered bead seat rims | Tyres mounted on full-tapered bead seat rims | Tyres mounted on full-tapered bead seat rims | Tyres mounted on full-tapered bead seat rims |
| 11.00-25 ML | 8.50 | 298 | 1 206 | 1 233 |
| 12.00-21 ML | 8.50 | 315 | 1 146 | 1 175 |
| 12.00-25 ML | 8.50 | 315 | 1 247 | 1 275 |
| 13.00-25 ML | 10.00 | 351 | 1 302 | — |
| 14.00-21 ML | 10.00 | 375 | 1 266 | — |
| 14.00-25 ML | 10.00 | 375 | 1 368 | — |
| Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims |
| 9-22.5 ML | 6.75 | 229 | 992 | — |
| 10-22.5 ML | 7.50 | 254 | 1 038 | — |
| 11-22.5 ML | 8.25 | 279 | 1 073 | — |
| 11-24.5 ML | 8.25 | 279 | 1 123 | — |
| 12-22.5 ML | 9.00 | 300 | 1 104 | — |
| Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims | Tyres mounted on 15o drop-centre rims |
| 14-17.5 ML | 10.50 | 349 | 921 | — |
| 15-19.5 ML | 11.75 | 389 | 1 019 | — |
| 15-22.5 ML | 11.75 | 389 | 1 095 | — |
| 16.5-19.5 ML | 13.00 | 425 | 1 068 | — |
| 16.5-22.5 ML | 13.00 | 425 | 1 144 | — |
| 18-19.5 ML | 14.00 | 457 | 1 096 | — |
| 18-22.5 ML | 14.00 | 457 | 1 172 | — |
| 19.5-19.5 ML | 15.00 | 495 | 1 156 | — |
| 23-23.5 ML | 17.00 | 584 | 1 320 | — |
| (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | (1) Overall tyre widths may exceed the above section widths by 8 %. (2) Tolerance + 6 % of the difference between the above outer diameter and the nominal rim diameters. | Appendix 6
PART B: COMMERCIAL VEHICLE TYRES
METHOD OF MEASURING TYRE DIMENSIONS
(see Annex II section 6.1.3)
1.1. The tyre is mounted on the measuring rim specified by the manufacturer pursuant to section 6.11 of Annex I, Appendix 1. 
1.2. The pressure in the tyre is then adjusted as follows: 1.2.1. in standard bias — belted tyres to 1,7 bar; 1.2.2. in diagonal (bias-ply) tyres to the pressure shown below (bar):

| Ply-rating | Speed category | Speed category | Speed category |
|---|---|---|---|
| Ply-rating | L, M, N | P, Q, R, S | T, U, H, V |
| 4 | 17 | 20 | — |
| 6 | 21 | 24 | 26 |
| 8 | 25 | 28 | 30 | 1.2.3. in standard radial tyres to 1,8 bar,
1.2.4. in reinforced tyres to 2,3 bar, and
1.2.5. in T-type temporary-use spare tyres: to 4,2 bar. 2. The tyre, mounted on its rim, is conditioned at the ambient room temperature for not less than 24 hours, with the exception referred to in section 6.2.3 of Annex II. 3. The pressure is readjusted to that specified in section 1.2. 4. The overall width is measured by caliper at six equally-spaced points, account being taken of the thickness of the protective ribs or bands. The highest measurement so obtained is taken as the overall width. 5. The outer diameter is determined by measuring the maximum circumference and dividing the figure so obtained by π (3,1416). 1. The tyre is mounted on the measuring rim specified by the manufacturer pursuant to section 6.11 of Appendix 1 to Annex I and is inflated to a pressure specified by the manufacturer pursuant to section 6.12 of Annex I, Appendix 1. 2. The tyre fitted on its rim is conditioned to the ambient temperature of the laboratory for at least 24 hours. 3. The pressure is readjusted to the value specified in section 1. 4. The overall width is measured by caliper at six equally-spaced points, account being taken of the thickness of the protective ribs or bands. The highest measurement so obtained is taken as the overall width. 5. The outer diameter is determined by measuring the maximum circumference and dividing the figure so obtained by π (3,1416). Appendix 7
3. Equivalent test methods
LOAD/SPEED TEST-PROCEDURE (
14
)
(see Annex II, section 6.2)
1.1. A new tyre is mounted on the test rim specified by the manufacturer pursuant to section 6.11 of Annex I, Appendix 1. 
1.2. It is inflated to the appropriate pressure as given in the table below:

| Speed category | Diagonal (bias-ply) tyres | Diagonal (bias-ply) tyres | Diagonal (bias-ply) tyres | Radial tyres | Radial tyres | Bias-belted tyres |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Speed category | Ply-rating | Ply-rating | Ply-rating | Standard | Reinforced | Standard |
| Speed category | 4 | 6 | 8 | Standard | Reinforced | Standard |
| L, M, N | 23 | 27 | 30 | 24 | — | — |
| P, Q, R, S | 26 | 30 | 33 | 26 | 30 | 26 |
| T, U, H | 28 | 32 | 35 | 28 | 32 | 28 |
| V | 30 | 34 | 37 | 30 | — | — |
| T-type temporary use spare tyres: to 4,2 bars. | T-type temporary use spare tyres: to 4,2 bars. | T-type temporary use spare tyres: to 4,2 bars. | T-type temporary use spare tyres: to 4,2 bars. | T-type temporary use spare tyres: to 4,2 bars. | T-type temporary use spare tyres: to 4,2 bars. | T-type temporary use spare tyres: to 4,2 bars. |

1.3. The manufacturer may request, giving reasons, the use of an inflation pressure differing from those under section 1.2. In such a case the tyre is inflated to that pressure (see section 6.14 of Appendix 1 to Annex I). 1.4. The tyre-and-wheel assembly is conditioned at test-room temperature for not less than three hours. 1.5. The tyre pressure is readjusted to that specified in section 1.2 or 1.3. 
2.1. The tyre-and-wheel assembly is mounted on a test axle and pressed against the outer face of a smooth wheel 1,70 m ± 1 % or 2 m ± 1 % in diameter. 2.2. Apply to the test axle a load equal to 80 % of: 2.2.1. the maximum load rating equated to the load capacity index for tyres with speed symbols L to H inclusive: 2.2.2. the maximum load rating associated with a maximum speed of 240 km/h for tyres with speed symbol 'V' (see section 2.31.2 of Annex II). 2.3. Throughout the test the tyre pressure must not be corrected and the test load must be kept constant. 2.4. During the test the temperature in the test-room must be maintained at between 20 oC and 30 oC or at a higher temperature if the manufacturer agrees. 2.5. The test is carred out without interruption in conformity with the following particulars: 2.5.1. time taken to pass from zero speed to initial test speed: 10 minutes; 2.5.2. initial test speed: prescribed maximum speed for the type of tyre, less 40 km/h in the case of the smooth wheel having 1,70 m ± 1 % in diameter or less 30 km/h in the case of the smooth wheel having 2 m ± 1 % in diameter; 2.5.3. successive speed increments: 10 km/h;
2.5.4. duration of test at each speed step except the last: 10 minutes; 2.5.5. duration of test at last speed step: 20 minutes;
LOAD/SPEED TEST PROGRAMME
Load index
Tyre speed category symbol
Test-drum speed (rev/min) (1) Load placed on the wheel as a percentage of the load corresponding to the load index
Radial-ply tyre
Diagonal (bias-ply) tyre
7 h.
16 h.
24 h.
122 or more
F
100
100
66 %
84 %
101 %
G
125
100
J
150
125
K
175
150
L
200
—
M
225
—
121 or less
F
100
100
G
125
125
J
150
150
K
175
175
L
200
175
70 %
88 %
106 %
4 h.
6 h.
M
250
200
75 %
97 %
114 %
N
275
—
75 %
97 %
114 %
P
300
—
75 %
97 %
114 %
(1) 'Special-use' tyres (see section 2.1.3. of Annex II) should be tested at a speed equal to 85 % of the test-drum speed prescribed above for equivalent normal tyres.

Appendix 8VARIATION OF LOAD CAPACITY WITH SPEED
Commercial-vehicle tyres
RADIAL AND DIAGONAL
(see Annex II, sections 2.30, 2.31 and 6.2.4)
Speed
(km/h)
Variation of load capacity (%)
All load indices
Load indices (1) ≥ 122
Load indices (1) ≤ 121
Speed category symbol
Speed category symbol
Speed category symbol
F
G
J
K
L
M
L
M
N
P (2) 0
+ 150
+ 150
+ 150
+ 150
+ 150
+ 150
+ 110
+ 110
+ 110
+ 110
5
+ 110
+ 110
+ 110
+ 110
+ 110
+ 110
+ 90
+ 90
+ 90
+ 90
10
+ 80
+ 80
+ 80
+ 80
+ 80
+ 80
+ 75
+ 75
+ 75
+ 75
15
+ 65
+ 65
+ 65
+ 65
+ 65
+ 65
+ 60
+ 60
+ 60
+ 60
20
+ 50
+ 50
+ 50
+ 50
+ 50
+ 50
+ 50
+ 50
+ 50
+ 50
25
+ 35
+ 35
+ 35
+ 35
+ 35
+ 35
+ 42
+ 42
+ 42
+ 42
30
+ 25
+ 25
+ 25
+ 25
+ 25
+ 25
+ 35
+ 35
+ 35
+ 35
35
+ 19
+ 19
+ 19
+ 19
+ 19
+ 19
+ 29
+ 29
+ 29
+ 29
40
+ 15
+ 15
+ 15
+ 15
+ 15
+ 15
+ 25
+ 25
+ 25
+ 25
45
+ 13
+ 13
+ 13
+ 13
+ 13
+ 13
+ 22
+ 22
+ 22
+ 22
50
+ 12
+ 12
+ 12
+ 12
+ 12
+ 12
+ 20
+ 20
+ 20
+ 20
55
+ 11
+ 11
+ 11
+ 11
+ 11
+ 11
+ 17,5 
+ 17,5 
+ 17,5 
+ 17,5 
60
+ 10
+ 10
+ 10
+ 10
+ 10
+ 10
+ 15,0 
+ 15,0 
+ 15,0 
+ 15,0 
65
+ 7,5 
+ 8,5 
+ 8,5 
+ 8,5 
+ 8,5 
+ 8,5 
+ 13,5 
+ 13,5 
+ 13,5 
+ 13,5 
70
+ 5,0 
+ 7,0 
+ 7,0 
+ 7,0 
+ 7,0 
+ 7,0 
+ 12,5 
+ 12,5 
+ 12,5 
+ 12,5 
75
+ 2,5 
+ 5,5 
+ 5,5 
+ 5,5 
+ 5,5 
+ 5,5 
+ 11,0 
+ 11,0 
+ 11,0 
+ 11,0 
80
0
+ 4,0 
+ 4,0 
+ 4,0 
+ 4,0 
+ 4,0 
+ 10,0 
+ 10,0 
+ 10,0 
+ 10,0 
85
− 3
+ 2,0 
+ 3,0 
+ 3,0 
+ 3,0 
+ 3,0 
+ 8,5 
+ 8,5 
+ 8,5 
+ 8,5 
90
− 6
0
+ 2,0 
+ 2,0 
+ 2,0 
+ 2,0 
+ 7,5 
+ 7,5 
+ 7,5 
+ 7,5 
95
− 10
− 2,5 
+ 1,0 
+ 1,0 
+ 1,0 
+ 1,0 
+ 6,5 
+ 6,5 
+ 6,5 
+ 6,5 
100
− 15
− 5
0
0
0
0
+ 5,0 
+ 5,0 
+ 5,0 
+ 5,0 
105
− 8
− 2
0
0
0
+ 3,75 
+ 3,75 
+ 3,75 
+ 3,75 
110
− 13
− 4
0
0
0
+ 2,5 
+ 2,5 
+ 2,5 
+ 2,5 
115
− 7
− 3
0
0
+ 1,25 
+ 1,25 
+ 1,25 
+ 1,25 
120
− 12
− 7
0
0
0
0
0
0
125
0
− 2,5 
0
0
0
130
0
− 5
0
0
0
135
− 7,5 
− 2,5 
0
0
140
− 10
− 5
0
0
145
− 7,5 
− 2,5 
0
150
− 10
− 5
0
155
− 7,5 
− 2,5 
160
− 10
− 5
(1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. ANNEX IIIADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS FOR THE TYPE-APPROVAL OF VEHICLES WITH REGARD TO THE FITTING OF THEIR TYRES1. APPLICATION FOR THE 
►M1
 EC TYPE-APPROVAL ◄ OF A VEHICLE TYPE
1.1. The application for 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ of a vehicle type with regard to its tyres is submitted by the vehicle manufacturer or by his authorized representative. 1.2. It is accompanied, in triplicate, by a description of the vehicle type and of its tyres in terms of their tyre-size designation, speed category and load-capacity index, including any temporary-use spare unit(s), with which it may be fitted as described in the information document in Appendix 1. 
1.3. A vehicle representative of the vehicle type to be approved must be submitted to the technical service responsible for conducting the approval tests. 1.4. The vehicle manufacturer or his representative may apply for the 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ to be extended to include tyres of additional tyre-size designations, speed categories or load-capacity indices or additonal temporary-use spare unit(s). 2. 
►M1
 EC TYPE-APPROVAL ◄ OF A VEHICLE
2.1. ►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ is granted and an 
►M1
 EC type-approval ◄ number issued in respect of any vehicle type submitted in accordance with section 1 which satisfied the requirements of this Directive. 2.2. Notice of approval or of extension or of refusal of approval of a vehicle type pursuant to this Directive is communicated to the Member States by means of a form conforming to the model in Appendix 2. 
2.3. An approval number is assigned to each vehicle type approved. The same Member State must not assign the same number to another vehicle type. 3. MODIFICATION OF VEHICLE TYPE
3.1. Every modification of a vehicle type must be notified to the approval authority which approved it. That approval authority may then either: 3.1.1. consider that the modifications made are unlikely to have an appreciable adverse effect and that in any case the vehicle still meets the requirements; or
3.1.2. refuse to approve the modification. 3.2. Confirmation or refusal of approval, specifying the alterations, is communicated to the other Member States by the procedure specified in sections 2.2. 4. CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION
4.1. Every production vehicle to which this Directive applies must be so manufactured that it conforms to all of the relevant requirements of this Directive. 4.2. In order to verify that the requirements of section 4.1 are met, suitable controls of the production must be carried out. 4.3. The holder of the approval must in particular ensure the existence of procedures for effectively checking on compatibility between the characteristics of the vehicle and the characteristics of the tyres fitted as laid down within the framework of this Directive. 4.4. The approval authority which has granted type-approval may at any time verify the conformity control methods applicable to each production unit. 4.4.1. In every inspection, the test books and productions survey records must be presented to the visiting inspector. 4.5. The normal frequency of inspections authorized by the approval authority in one per year. In the case where negative results are recorded during one of these visits, the approval authority must ensure that all necessary steps are taken to re-establish the conformity of production as rapidly as possible. 5. PRODUCTION DEFINITIVELY DISCONTINUED
If the holder of an approval completely ceases to manufacture a type of vehicle approved in accordance with this Directive, he must so inform the authority which granted the approval. Upon receiving the relevant communication that authority must inform thereof the other approval authorities by means of a copy of the approval form bearing at the end, in large letters, the signed and dated annotation 'PRODUCTION DISCONTINUED'. Appendix 1INFORMATION DOCUMENT No...IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANNEX I TO COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 70/156/EEC RELATING TO 
►M1
 EC TYPE-APPROVAL ◄ OF A VEHICLE TYPE WITH REGARD TO THE FITTING OF ITS TYRES
(DIRECTIVE 92/23/EEC)
Appendix 2
MODEL
[(maximum format: A4 (210 × 297 mm)]
►M1
 EC TYPE-APPROVAL ◄ CERTIFICATE(vehicle)
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
►(4) M1
ANNEX IVREQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES WITH REGARD TO THE FITTING OF THEIR TYRES1. DEFINITIONS
2. For the purpose of this Directive: 2.1. 'approval of a vehicle' means the approval of a vehicle type with regard to its tyres, including temporary-use spare tyres; 2.2. 'vehicle type' means a range of vehicles which do not differ significantly, at least as regards each variant of the vehicle type, in such essential aspects as would affect the tyre size designation, the speed category symbol or the load capacity index: 2.3. 'wheel' means a complete wheel consisting of a rim and a wheel disc; 2.4. 'temporary-use spare wheel' means a wheel different from one of the normal wheels on the vehicle type; 2.5. 'unit' means an assembly of a wheel and tyre; 2.6. 'normal unit' means a unit which is capable of being fitted to the vehicle for normal operation;
2.5.5. duration of test at last speed step: 20 minutes; 2.5.6. maximum test speed: prescribed maximum speed for the type of tyre, less 10 km/h in the case of the smooth wheel having 1,7 m ± 1 % in diameter or equal to prescribed maximum speed in the case of the smooth wheel having 2 m ± 1 % in diameter. If a method other than that described in section 2 is used, its equivalence must be demonstrated. 1.1. Mount a new tyre on the test rim specified by the manufacturer pursuant to section 6.11 of Appendix 1 to Annex I. 1.2. Use a new inner tube or combination of inner tube, valve and flap (as required) when testing tyres with inner tubes. 1.3. Inflate the tyre to the pressure corresponding to the pressure index specified by the tyre manufacturer, pursuant to section 6.14 of Appendix 1 to Annex I. 1.4. Condition the tyre and wheel assembly at test room temperature for not less than three hours. 1.5. Readjust the tyre pressure to that specified in section 1.3. 
2.1. Mount the tyre and wheel assembly on the test axle and press it against the outer face of a smooth power-driven test drum 1,70 m ± 1 % in diameter having a surface at least as wide as the tyre tread. 2.2. Apply to test axle a series of test loads expressed as a percentage of the load indicated in Appendix 2, opposite the load index moulded on the sidewall of the tyre, in accordance with the load/speed test programme shown in the Table below. When the tyre has load capacity indices for both single and twin utilization, the reference load for single utilization is taken as the basis for the test loads. 2.3. The tyre pressure must not be corrected throughout the test and the test load must be kept constant throughout each of the three test stages. 2.4. During the test the temperature in the test room must be maintained at between 20 oC and 30 oC or at a higher temperature if the manufacturer so agrees. 2.5. The load/speed test programme must be carried out without interruption. If a method other than that described in section 2 is used, its equivalence must be demonstrated.

| Load index | Tyre speed category symbol | Test-drum speed (rev/min) (1) | Test-drum speed (rev/min) (1) | Load placed on the wheel as a percentage of the load corresponding to the load index | Load placed on the wheel as a percentage of the load corresponding to the load index | Load placed on the wheel as a percentage of the load corresponding to the load index |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Load index | Tyre speed category symbol | Radial-ply tyre | Diagonal (bias-ply) tyre | 7 h. | 16 h. | 24 h. |
| 122 or more | F | 100 | 100 | 66 % | 84 % | 101 % |
| 122 or more | G | 125 | 100 | 66 % | 84 % | 101 % |
| 122 or more | J | 150 | 125 | 66 % | 84 % | 101 % |
| 122 or more | K | 175 | 150 | 66 % | 84 % | 101 % |
| 122 or more | L | 200 | — | 66 % | 84 % | 101 % |
| 122 or more | M | 225 | — | 66 % | 84 % | 101 % |
| 121 or less | F | 100 | 100 | 66 % | 84 % | 101 % |
| 121 or less | G | 125 | 125 | 66 % | 84 % | 101 % |
| 121 or less | J | 150 | 150 | 66 % | 84 % | 101 % |
| 121 or less | K | 175 | 175 | 66 % | 84 % | 101 % |
| 121 or less | L | 200 | 175 | 70 % | 88 % | 106 % |
| 121 or less | L | 200 | 175 | 4 h. | 6 h. | 106 % |
| 121 or less | M | 250 | 200 | 75 % | 97 % | 114 % |
| 121 or less | N | 275 | — | 75 % | 97 % | 114 % |
| 121 or less | P | 300 | — | 75 % | 97 % | 114 % |
| (1) 'Special-use' tyres (see section 2.1.3. of Annex II) should be tested at a speed equal to 85 % of the test-drum speed prescribed above for equivalent normal tyres. | (1) 'Special-use' tyres (see section 2.1.3. of Annex II) should be tested at a speed equal to 85 % of the test-drum speed prescribed above for equivalent normal tyres. | (1) 'Special-use' tyres (see section 2.1.3. of Annex II) should be tested at a speed equal to 85 % of the test-drum speed prescribed above for equivalent normal tyres. | (1) 'Special-use' tyres (see section 2.1.3. of Annex II) should be tested at a speed equal to 85 % of the test-drum speed prescribed above for equivalent normal tyres. | (1) 'Special-use' tyres (see section 2.1.3. of Annex II) should be tested at a speed equal to 85 % of the test-drum speed prescribed above for equivalent normal tyres. | (1) 'Special-use' tyres (see section 2.1.3. of Annex II) should be tested at a speed equal to 85 % of the test-drum speed prescribed above for equivalent normal tyres. | (1) 'Special-use' tyres (see section 2.1.3. of Annex II) should be tested at a speed equal to 85 % of the test-drum speed prescribed above for equivalent normal tyres. |

| Speed (km/h) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Speed (km/h) | All load indices | All load indices | All load indices | All load indices | Load indices (1) ≥ 122 | Load indices (1) ≥ 122 | Load indices (1) ≤ 121 | Load indices (1) ≤ 121 | Load indices (1) ≤ 121 | Load indices (1) ≤ 121 |
| Speed (km/h) | Speed category symbol | Speed category symbol | Speed category symbol | Speed category symbol | Speed category symbol | Speed category symbol | Speed category symbol | Speed category symbol | Speed category symbol | Speed category symbol |
| Speed (km/h) | F | G | J | K | L | M | L | M | N | P (2) |
| 0 | + 150 | + 150 | + 150 | + 150 | + 150 | + 150 | + 110 | + 110 | + 110 | + 110 |
| 5 | + 110 | + 110 | + 110 | + 110 | + 110 | + 110 | + 90 | + 90 | + 90 | + 90 |
| 10 | + 80 | + 80 | + 80 | + 80 | + 80 | + 80 | + 75 | + 75 | + 75 | + 75 |
| 15 | + 65 | + 65 | + 65 | + 65 | + 65 | + 65 | + 60 | + 60 | + 60 | + 60 |
| 20 | + 50 | + 50 | + 50 | + 50 | + 50 | + 50 | + 50 | + 50 | + 50 | + 50 |
| 25 | + 35 | + 35 | + 35 | + 35 | + 35 | + 35 | + 42 | + 42 | + 42 | + 42 |
| 30 | + 25 | + 25 | + 25 | + 25 | + 25 | + 25 | + 35 | + 35 | + 35 | + 35 |
| 35 | + 19 | + 19 | + 19 | + 19 | + 19 | + 19 | + 29 | + 29 | + 29 | + 29 |
| 40 | + 15 | + 15 | + 15 | + 15 | + 15 | + 15 | + 25 | + 25 | + 25 | + 25 |
| 45 | + 13 | + 13 | + 13 | + 13 | + 13 | + 13 | + 22 | + 22 | + 22 | + 22 |
| 50 | + 12 | + 12 | + 12 | + 12 | + 12 | + 12 | + 20 | + 20 | + 20 | + 20 |
| 55 | + 11 | + 11 | + 11 | + 11 | + 11 | + 11 | + 17,5 | + 17,5 | + 17,5 | + 17,5 |
| 60 | + 10 | + 10 | + 10 | + 10 | + 10 | + 10 | + 15,0 | + 15,0 | + 15,0 | + 15,0 |
| 65 | + 7,5 | + 8,5 | + 8,5 | + 8,5 | + 8,5 | + 8,5 | + 13,5 | + 13,5 | + 13,5 | + 13,5 |
| 70 | + 5,0 | + 7,0 | + 7,0 | + 7,0 | + 7,0 | + 7,0 | + 12,5 | + 12,5 | + 12,5 | + 12,5 |
| 75 | + 2,5 | + 5,5 | + 5,5 | + 5,5 | + 5,5 | + 5,5 | + 11,0 | + 11,0 | + 11,0 | + 11,0 |
| 80 | 0 | + 4,0 | + 4,0 | + 4,0 | + 4,0 | + 4,0 | + 10,0 | + 10,0 | + 10,0 | + 10,0 |
| 85 | − 3 | + 2,0 | + 3,0 | + 3,0 | + 3,0 | + 3,0 | + 8,5 | + 8,5 | + 8,5 | + 8,5 |
| 90 | − 6 | 0 | + 2,0 | + 2,0 | + 2,0 | + 2,0 | + 7,5 | + 7,5 | + 7,5 | + 7,5 |
| 95 | − 10 | − 2,5 | + 1,0 | + 1,0 | + 1,0 | + 1,0 | + 6,5 | + 6,5 | + 6,5 | + 6,5 |
| 100 | − 15 | − 5 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | + 5,0 | + 5,0 | + 5,0 | + 5,0 |
| 105 |  | − 8 | − 2 | 0 | 0 | 0 | + 3,75 | + 3,75 | + 3,75 | + 3,75 |
| 110 |  | − 13 | − 4 | 0 | 0 | 0 | + 2,5 | + 2,5 | + 2,5 | + 2,5 |
| 115 |  |  | − 7 | − 3 | 0 | 0 | + 1,25 | + 1,25 | + 1,25 | + 1,25 |
| 120 |  |  | − 12 | − 7 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 125 |  |  |  |  |  | 0 | − 2,5 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 130 |  |  |  |  |  | 0 | − 5 | 0 | 0 | 0 |
| 135 |  |  |  |  |  |  | − 7,5 | − 2,5 | 0 | 0 |
| 140 |  |  |  |  |  |  | − 10 | − 5 | 0 | 0 |
| 145 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | − 7,5 | − 2,5 | 0 |
| 150 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | − 10 | − 5 | 0 |
| 155 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | − 7,5 | − 2,5 |
| 160 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | − 10 | − 5 |
| Speed (km/h) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) | Variation of load capacity (%) |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 160 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | − 10 | − 5 |
| (1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. | (1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. | (1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. | (1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. | (1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. | (1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. | (1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. | (1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. | (1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. | (1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. | (1) The load capacity indices refer to single operations (see section 2.28.2 of Annex II). (2) Load variations are not allowed above 160 km/h. For speed category symbols Q and above, the speed category corresponding to the speed category symbol (see section 2.29.3 of Annex II) specifies the maximum speed permitted for the tyre. |
2.6. 'normal unit' means a unit which is capable of being fitted to the vehicle for normal operation; 2.7. 'spare unit' means a unit which is intended to be exchanged for a normal unit in case of malfunction of the latter. A 'spare unit' may be either of the following: 2.7.0. 'normal spare unit', which is a unit that conforms to the normal unit of the vehicle type; 2.7.1. 'temporary-use spare unit', which is a unit that differs from the normal units of the vehicle type with regard to their principal characteristics (e.g. their tyre-size designation, functional dimensions, conditions of use or structure). It is intended for temporary use under restricted conditions. Temporary-use spare units may be of the following categories: 2.7.1.1. category 1
a unit consisting of a wheel which conforms to a wheel of a normal unit and a tyre which has principal characteristics (e.g. dimensions, structure) different to the normal tyre; 2.7.1.2. category 2
a unit consisting of a wheel and a tyre both having principal characteristics different to the normal unit and intended to be carried on the vehicle with the tyre inflated to the pressure specified for temporary use; 2.7.1.3. category 3
a unit consisting of a normal wheel and a tyre having principal characteristics different to a normal tyre and intended to be carried on the vehicle with the tyre folded and not inflated; 2.7.1.4. category 4
a unit consisting of a wheel and tyre both having principal characteristics different to a normal unit and intended to be carried on the vehicle with the tyre folded and not inflated; 2.8. 'maximum mass' means the maximum value stated by the vehicle manufacturer to be technically permissible for the vehicle; 2.9. 'maximum axle load' means the maximum value stated by the vehicle manufacturer to be technically permissible for the total vertical force between the contact surfaces of the tyres of the axle in question and the ground and resulting from the part of the vehicle mass supported by that axle. The sum of the axle loads may be greater than the value corresponding to the maximum mass of the vehicle; 2.10. 'functional dimensions' means dimensions derived from the size designation of the wheels and/or tyres (e.g. diameter, width, aspect ratio) and from the mounting of the unit to the vehicle (e.g. wheel offset); 2.11. 'maximum design speed' means the maximum speed approved for the vehicle type inclusive of the tolerance allowed for the conformity checks of the series production. 3. REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES WITH REGARD TO THE FITTING OF THEIR TYRES
3.1. General
▼M1
3.1.1. Subject to the provisions of section 3.7.4., every tyre fitted to a vehicle, including where applicable any spare, must bear the EC type-approval mark(s) as specified in section 4 of Annex I or the type-approval mark indicating compliance with UN/ECE Regulations Nos 30 or 54. UN/ECE type-approval marks are considered to be equivalent only to the EC type-approval marks granted pursuant to Annex II. ▼B
3.2. Tyre fitment
3.2.1. All of the tyres fitted to a vehicle, excluding any temporary use spare, must have the same structure (see Annex II section 2.3). 3.2.2. All of the tyres fitted to one axle must be of the same type (see Annex II section 2.1). 3.2.3. The space in which the wheel revolves must be such as to allow unrestricted movement when using the maximum permissible size of tyres within the suspension and steering constraints provided by the vehicle manufacturer. 3.3. Load capacity
3.3.1. Subject to the provisions of section 3.7, the maximum load rating (see Annex II section 2.31) of every tyre, including a spare tyre (if provided) with which a vehicle is fitted is: 3.3.1.1. in the case of a vehicle fitted with tyres of the same type in single formation: at least equal to half of the maximum axle load (see section 2.9) for the most heavily loaded axle, as declared by the manufacturer of the vehicle; 3.3.1.2. in the case af a vehicle fitted with tyres of more than one type, in single formation: at least equal to half of the maximum axle load (see section 2.9), as declared by the manufacturer of the vehicle, in respect of the relevant axle; 3.3.1.3. in the case of a vehicle fitted with passenger car tyres in dual (twin) formation: at least equal to 0,27 times the maximum axle load, as declared by the manufacturer of the vehicle, in respect of the relevant axle; 3.3.1.4. in the case of axles fitted with commercial vehicle tyres in dual (twin) formation: at least equal to 0,25 times, with reference to the load capacity index for dual application, the maximum axle load as declared by the manufacturer of the vehicle, in respect of the relevant axle. 3.4. Speed capacity
3.4.1. Every tyre with which a vehicle is normally fitted must have a speed category symbol (see Annex II section 2.29) compatible with the maximum design speed of the vehicle (as declared by the vehicle manufacturer) or the applicable load/speed combination (see Annex II section 2.30). 3.4.2. The above specification does not apply: 3.4.2.1. in the case of temporary use spare units for which section 3.8 applies; 3.4.2.2. in the case of vehicles normally equipped with ordinary tyres and occassionally supplied with snow tyres. However, in this case the speed category symbol of the snow tyres must correspond to a speed either greater than the maximum design speed of the vehicle (as declared by the vehicle manufacturer) or not less than 160 km/h (or both). If, nevertheless, the maximum design speed of the vehicles (as declared by the vehicle manufacturer) is greater than the speed corresponding to the speed category symbol of the snow tyres a maximum speed warning label, specifying the maximum speed capability of the snow tyres, must be displayed inside the vehicle in a prominent position readily visible to the driver. 3.5. Spare tyre
3.5.1. In the case where a vehicle is provided with a spare wheel its tyre must be: 3.5.1.1. the same type as one of the tyres fitted to or approved for the vehicle, or
3.5.1.2. a temporary-use spare tyre of a type suitable for use on the vehicle, in any position. However, no vehicle other than a vehicle of category M1 ay be fitted with a temporary-use spare tyre. 3.5.2. Every vehicle provided with a temporary-use spare unit must be provided with supplementary information clearly and permanently displayed on the temporary-use spare unit or on the vehicle near the spare unit or in the driver's handbook. At least the following information must be given: 3.5.2.1. an instruction to drive with caution when the temporary-use spare unit is fitted, and to install a normal unit as soon as possible; 3.5.2.2. a statement that operation of the vehicle is not permitted with more than one temporary-use spare unit fitted at the same time; 3.5.2.3. a clear indication of the inflation pressure specified by the vehicle manufacturer for the tyre of the temporary-use spare unit; 3.5.2.4. for vehicles equipped with category 3 or category 4 temporary-use spare units, a description of the procedure for inflating the tyre to the pressure specified for temporary use by means of the device referred to in section 3.6;
3.6. Inflating device of temporary-use spare unit: 3.6.1. if the vehicle is equipped with a category 3 or category 4 temporary-use spare unit, a device must be provided on the vehicle which permits the tyre to be inflated to the pressure specified for temporary use within a maximum of five minutes. 3.7. Special cases
3.7.1. In the case of trailers of categories 01 and 02 with operating speeds restricted to 100 km/h or less fitted with passenger car tyres in single formation, the maximum load rating of every tyre must be at least equal to 0,45 times the maximum mass for the most heavily loaded axle, as declared by the manufacturer of the trailer. For tyres in dual (twin) formation this factor is 0,24.
For tyres in dual (twin) formation this factor is 0,24. 3.7.2. In the case of some special vehicles fitted with commercial vehicle tyres, the table 'Variation of Load Capacity with Speed' (see section 2.30 and Appendix 8 to Annex II) is not to be applied. In those cases the tyre maximum load ratings to check against the maximum axle loads (see sections 3.3.1.2 and 3.3.1.4 of this Annex) are determined by multiplying the load corresponding to the load capacity index by an appropriate coefficient which is related to the type of vehicle and its use rather than to the maximum design speed of the vehicle. In such cases section 3.4.1 of this Annex does not apply. The appropriate cofficients are as follows: 3.7.2.1. 1,10 in the case of vehicles of category M3 when the vehicle is carrying standing passengers and the operating speed does not exceed 60 km/h. However, for operational reasons Member States may allow the operating speed to be increased to 80 km/h;
3.7.2.2. 1,15 in the case of such vehicles (M3) if they are intended for use only on urban routes with frequent stops; 3.7.2.3. 1,10 in the case of public utility vehicles of category N used at slow speeds over short distances in urban and suburban applications such as road sweepers or refuse collectors. 3.7.3. When a motor vehicle of category M1 is towing a trailer, the additional load imposed at the trailer coupling device may cause the tyre maximum load ratings to be exceeded, but not by more than 15 %, provided that the operating speed is restricted to 100 km/h or less and the inflation pressure increased by at least 0,2 bar is applied. 3.7.4. In the case of a vehicle which is fitted with tyres which are not passenger car tyres nor commercial vehicle tyres due to special conditions of use (e.g. agricultural tyres, industrial truck tyres, motor cycle tyres) the requirements of Annex II do not apply provided that the approval authority is satisfied that the tyres fitted are suitable for the operating conditions of the vehicle. 3.8. Specifications for temporary-use spare units
3.8.1. Every temporary-use spare tyre must have a speed category at least equal to 120 km/h (speed category symbol L). 3.8.2. When fitted to the vehicle for temporary use the outward facing surface of the wheel must exhibit a distinctive colour or colour pattern which is clearly different from the colour(s) of the normal units. If it is possible to attach a wheel cover to the temporary-use spare unit the distinctive colour or colour pattern must not be obscured by this wheel cover. 3.8.3. A maximum speed warning symbol must be permanently displayed on the outer face of the wheel in a prominent position and in accordance with the diagram below: ▼M1
ANNEX VTYRE/ROAD NOISE EMISSION1. SCOPE
This annex applies to the EC type-approval of tyres, as components, in respect of tyre/road noise emissions.2. DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of this Annex, the definitions of Annex II shall apply, except for the definition under section 2.1., which shall read as follows: 2.1. 'Type of tyre'
means, in relation to type-approval pursuant to this Annex (tyre/road noise emission), a range of tyres consisting of a list of tyre size designations (see section 2.17 in Annex II), brand names, trade marks and trade descriptions which do not differ in such essential characteristics as: — the manufacturer's name
— the tyre classification (see section 2.4. of this Annex)
— the tyre structure (see section 2.1.4. of Annex II)
— the category of use (see section 2.1.3. of Annex II)
— for class C1 tyres. Reinforced or Extra Load
— the tread pattern (see 2.3 of Information Document, Annex I, Appendix 3). Note: The effect of changes in minor details of tyre tread and construction on the tyre/road noise emission will be determined during checks on the conformity of production. In addition, the following definitions shall also apply: 2.2. 'Brand name or trade description' means the identification for the tyre as provided by the tyre manufacturer. The brand name may be the same as the manufacturer and the trade description may coincide with the trade mark. 2.3. 'Tyre/road noise emission' means the noise arising from the contact between tyres in motion and the road surface. 2.4. For the purpose of this Annex, the following classification shall apply: class C1 tyres
passenger car tyres (see section 2.32. of Annex II);
class C2 tyres
commercial vehicle tyres (see section 2.33. of Annex II) with load capacity index in single formation ≤ 121 and speed category symbol ≥ 'N' (see section 2.29.3. of Annex II);
class C3 tyres
commercial vehicle tyres (see section 2.33. of Annex II) with load capacity index in single formation ≤ 121 and speed category symbol ≤ 'M' (see section 2.29.3. of Annex II) or commercial vehicle tyres (see section 2.33. of Annex II) with load capacity index in single formation ≥ 122. 3. MARKING REQUIREMENTS
3.1. In addition to other marking requirements given in section 4 of Annex I and section 3 of Annex II, the tyre must bear the following markings: 3.1.1. the manufacturer's name or trade mark; the brand name, the trade description or the trade mark. 4. TYRE/ROAD NOISE EMISSION REQUIREMENTS
4.1. General requirements
A set of four tyres bearing the same tyre size designation and tread pattern that is representative of the range of tyres, shall be submitted to a tyre/road noise emission level test to be carried out as specified in Appendix 1. 4.2. The noise levels determined in accordance with section 4.5 of Appendix 1 shall not exceed the following limits: 4.2.1. Class C1 tyres, with reference to the nominal section width (see Annex II, section 2.17.1.1.) of the tyre that has been tested: Limit values in dB(A)
Tyre Class
Nominal section width (mm) A
B (1) C (1) (2) C1a
≤ 145
72 (*1)
71 (*1)
70
C1b
> 145 ≤ 165
73 (*1)
72 (*1)
71
C1c
> 165 ≤ 185
74 (*1)
73 (*1)
72
C1d
> 185 ≤ 215
75 (*2)
74 (*2)
74
C1e
> 215
76 (*3)
75 (*3)
75
(*1) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2007; (*2) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2008; (*3) Limit values in column A shall apply until 30 June 2009; (1) Indicative figures only. Definitive figures will depend on amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. (2) Limit values for column C will result from the amendment of the Directive following the report required in Article 3(2) of Directive 2001/43/EC. 4.2.1.1. For reinforced (or Extra Load) tyres (see Annex II, section 3.1.8.), the limit values in section 4.2.1. shall be increased by 1 dB(A)
4.2.1.2. For tyres classified in category of use 'Special', (see Annex II, section 2.1.3.), the limit values in section 4.2.1. shall be increased by 2 dB(A). 4.2.2. Class C2 tyres with reference to the category of use (see Annex II, section 2.1.3.) of the range of tyres: Category of use
Limit value expressed in dB(A)
Normal
75
Snow
77
Special
78
4.2.3. Class C3 tyres, with reference to the category of use (see Annex II, section 2.1.3.) of the range of tyres: Category of use
Limit value expressed in dB(A)
Normal
76
Snow
78
Special
79
Appendix 1TEST METHOD FOR TYRE-ROAD SOUND LEVELS COAST-BY METHOD0. Introduction
The presented method contains specifications on measuring instruments, measurement conditions and the measurement method, in order to obtain the noise level of a set of tyres mounted on a test vehicle rolling at high speed on a specified road surface. The maximum sound pressure level is to be recorded, when the test vehicle is coasting, by remote-field microphones; the final result of a reference speed is obtained from a linear regression analysis. Such test results cannot be related to tyre noise measured during acceleration under power or deceleration during braking.1.
Such test results cannot be related to tyre noise measured during acceleration under power or deceleration during braking.1. Measuring instruments
1.1. Acoustic measurements
The sound level meter or the equivalent measuring system, including the windscreen recommended by the manufacturer, shall at least meet the requirements of Type 1 instruments in accordance with IEC 60651, second edition.The measurements shall be made using the frequency weighting A, and the time weighting F.When using a system that includes a periodic monitoring of the A-weighted sound level, a reading should be made at a time interval not greater than 30 ms.1.1.1. Calibration
At the beginning and at the end of every measurement session, the entire measurement system shall be checked by means of a sound calibrator that fulfils the requirements for sound calibrators of at least precision Class 1 according to IEC 942:1988. Without any further adjustment the difference between the readings of two consecutive checks shall be less than or equal to IEC 942:1988. Without any further adjustment the difference between the readings of two consecutive checks shall be less than or equal to 0,5 dB. If this value is exceeded, the results of the measurements obtained after the previous satisfactory check shall be discarded.1.1.2. Compliance with requirements
The compliance of the sound calibration device with the requirements of IEC 60942:1988 shall be verified once a year and the compliance of the instrumentation system with the requirements of IEC 60651:1979/A1:1993, second edition, shall be verified at least every two years by a laboratory which is authorised to perform calibrations traceable to the appropriate standards.1.1.3. Positioning of the microphone
The microphone (or microphones) must be located at a distance of 7,5 m ± 0,05 m from track reference line CC1 (figure 1) and 1,2 m ± 0,02 m above the ground. Its axis of maximum sensitivity must be horizontal and perpendicular to the path of the vehicle (line CC1).1.2. Speed measurements
The vehicle speed shall be measured with instruments with an accuracy of ± 1 km/h or better when the front end of the vehicle has reached line PP′ (figure 1).1.3. Temperature measurements
Measurements of air as well as test surface temperature are mandatory. The temperature measuring devices shall be accurate within ± 1 oC.1.3.1. Air temperature
The temperature sensor is to be positioned in an unobstructed location close to the microphone in such a way that it is exposed to the airflow and protected from direct solar radiation. The latter may be achieved by any shading screen or similar device. The sensor should be positioned at a height of 1,2 m ± 0,1 m above the test surface level in order to minimise the influence of the test surface thermal radiation at low airflows.1.3.2. Test surface temperature
The temperature sensor is to be positioned in a location where the temperature measured is representative of the temperature in the wheel tracks, without interfering with the sound measurement.If an instrument with a contact temperature sensor is used, heat-conductive paste shall be applied between the surface and the sensor to ensure adequate thermal contact.If a radiation thermometer (pyrometer) is used, the height should be chosen to ensure that a measuring spot with a diameter of ≥ 0,1 m is covered.1.4. Wind measurement
The device must be capable of measuring the wind speed with a tolerance of ± 1 m/s. The wind shall be measured at microphone height. The wind direction with reference to the driving direction shall be recorded.2. Conditions of measurement
2.1. Test site
The test site must consist of a central section surrounded by a substantially flat test area. The measuring section must be level; the test surface must be dry and clean for all measurements. The test surface shall not be artificially cooled during or prior to the testing.The test track must be such that the conditions of a free sound field between the sound source and the microphone are attained to within 1 dB(A). These conditions shall be deemed to be met if there are no large sound reflecting objects such as fences, rocks, bridges or buildings within 50 m of the centre of the measuring section. The surface of the test track and the dimensions of the test site shall be in accordance with Appendix 2 of this Annex.A central part of at least 10 m radius shall be free of powdery snow, tall grass, loose soil, cinders or the like. There must be no obstacle which could affect the sound field within the vicinity of the microphone and no persons shall stand between the microphone and the sound source. The operator carrying out the measurements and any observers attending the measurements must position themselves so as not to affect the readings of the measuring instruments.2.2. Meteorological conditions
Measurements shall not be made under poor atmospheric conditions. It must be ensured that the results are not affected by gusts of wind. Testing shall not be performed if the wind speed at the microphone height exceeds 5 m/s.Measurements shall not be made if the air temperature is below 5 oC or above 40 oC or the test surface temperature is below 5 oC or above 50 oC.2.3. Ambient noise
The background sound level (including any wind noise) shall be at least 10 dB(A) less than the measured tyre-road sound emission. A suitable windscreen may be fitted to the microphone provided that account is taken of its effect on the sensitivity and directional characteristics of the microphone.Any measurement affected by a sound peak which appears to be unrelated to the characteristics of the general sound level of tyres shall be ignored.2.4. Test vehicle requirements
2.4.1. General
The test vehicle shall be a motor vehicle and be fitted with four single tyres on just two axles.2.4.2. Vehicle load
The vehicle must be loaded such as to comply with the test tyre loads as specified in section 2.5.2. below.2.4.3. Wheelbase
The wheelbase between the two axles fitted with the test tyres shall for Class C1 be less than 3,50 m and for Class C2 and Class C3 tyres be less than 5 m.2.4.4. Measures to minimise vehicle influence on sound level measurements
To ensure that tyre noise is not significantly affected by the test vehicle design the following requirements and recommendations are given. Requirements: (a) Spray suppression flaps or other extra device to suppress spray shall not be fitted. (b) Addition or retention of elements in the immediate vicinity of the rims and tyres, which may screen the emitted sound, is not permitted. (c) Wheel alignment (toe in, camber and castor) shall be in full accordance with the vehicle manufacturer's recommendations. (d) Additional sound absorbing material may not be mounted in the wheel housings or under the underbody. (e) Suspension shall be in such a condition that it does not result in an abnormal reduction in ground clearance when the vehicle is loaded in accordance with the testing requirement. If available, body level regulation systems shall be adjusted to give a ground clearance during testing which is normal for unladen condition. Recommendations to avoid parasitic sound: (a) Removal or modification of components on the vehicle that any contribute to the background sound of the vehicle is recommended. Any removals or modifications shall be recorded in the test report. (b) During testing it should be ascertained that brakes are not poorly released, causing brake noise. (c) It should be ascertained that electric cooling fans are not operating. (d) Windows and sliding roof of the vehicle shall be closed during testing. 2.5. Tyres
2.5.1. General
Four identical tyres of the same type and range must be fitted to the test vehicle.
2.5. Tyres
2.5.1. General
Four identical tyres of the same type and range must be fitted to the test vehicle.

In the case of tyres with a load capacity index in excess of 121 and without any dual fitting indication, two of these tyres of the same type and range must be fitted to the rear axle of the test vehicle; the front axle must be fitted with tyres of a size suitable for the axle load and planed down to the minimum depth in order to minimise the influence of tyre/road contact noise while maintaining a sufficient level of safety. Winter tyres that in certain Member States may be equipped with studs intended to enhance friction shall be tested without this equipment. Tyres with special fitting requirements shall be tested in accordance with these requirements (e.g. rotation direction). The tyres must have full tread depth before being run-in.Tyres are to be tested on rims permitted by the tyre manufacturer.2.5.2. Tyre loads
The test load Qt for each tyre on the test vehicle shall be 50 % to 90 % of the reference load Qr, but the average test load Qt,avr of all tyres shall be 75 % ± 5 % of the reference load Qr.For all tyres the reference load Qr corresponds to the maximum mass associated with the load capacity index of the tyre. In the case where the load capacity index is constituted by two numbers divided by slash (/), reference shall be made to the first number.2.5.3. Tyre inflation pressure
Each tyre fitted on the test vehicle shall have a test pressure Pt not higher than the reference pressure Pr and within the interval: where Pr is the pressure corresponding to the pressure index marked on the sidewall.For Class C1 the reference pressure is Pr = 250 kPa for 'standard' tyres and 290 kPa for 'reinforced' tyres, the minimum test pressure shall be Pt = 150 kPa.2.5.4. Preparations prior to testing
The tyres should be 'run-in' prior to testing to remove compound nodules or other tyre pattern characteristics resulting from the moulding process. This will normally require the equivalent of about 100 km of normal use on the road.The tyres fitted to the test vehicle shall rotate in the same direction as when they were run-in.Prior to testing tyres shall be warmed up by running under test conditions.3. Method of testing
3.1. General conditions
For all measurements the vehicle must be driven in a straight line over the measuring section (AA′ to BB′) in such a way that the median longitudinal plane of the vehicle is as close as possible to the line CC′.When the front end of the test vehicle has reached the line AA′, the vehicle's driver must have put the gear selector on neutral position and switched off the engine. If abnormal noise (e.g. ventilator, self-ignition) is emitted by the test vehicle during the measurement, the test must be repeated.3.2. Nature and number of measurements
The maximum sound level expressed in A-weighted decibels (dB(A)) shall be measured to the first decimal place as the vehicle is coasting between lines AA′ and BB′ (figure 1 — front end of the vehicle on line AA′, rear end of the vehicle on line BB'). This value will constitute the result of the measurement.At least four measurements shall be made on each side of the test vehicle at test speeds lower than the reference speed specified in paragraph 4.1. and at least four measurements at test speeds higher than the reference speed. The speeds shall be approximately equally spaced over the speed range specified in paragraph 3.3.3.3. Test speeds
The test vehicle speeds shall be within the range: (i) from 70 km/h to 90 km/h for Class C1 and Class C2 tyres; (ii) from 60 km/h to 80 km/h for Class C3 tyres. 4. Interpretation of results
The measurement shall be invalid if an abnormal discrepancy between the maximum value and the other values is recorded.4.1. Determination of test result
Reference speed Vref used to determine the final result will be: (i) 80 km/h for Class C1 and Class C2 tyres; (ii) 70 km/h for Class C3 tyres. 4.2. Regression analysis of noise measurements
The (not temperature corrected) tyre-road noise level LR in dB(A) is determined by a regression analysis according to: where: is the mean value of the noise levels Li, measured in dB(A): n is the measurement number (n ≥ 16),
 is the mean value of logarithms of speeds vi: With
a is the slope of the regression line in dB(A): 4.3. Temperature correction
For Class C2 tyres, the final result shall be normalised to a test surface reference temperature href by applying a temperature correction, according to the following: where θ is the measured test surface temperature,
For Class C1 tyres, the coefficient K is - 0,03 dB(A)/oC when θ > θref and K is - 0,06 dB(A)/oC when θ < θref.For Class C2 tyres, the coefficient K is - 0,02 dB(A)/oCIf the measured test surface temperature does not change by more than 5 oC within all measurements necessary for the determination of the sound level of one set of tyres, the temperature correction may be made only on the final reported tyre-road sound level as indicated above, utilizing the arithmetic mean value of the measured temperatures. Otherwise each measured sound level Li shall be corrected, utilizing the temperature at the time of the sound recording.There will be no temperature correction for Class C3 tyres. 4.4. In order to take account of any measuring instrument inaccuracies, the results according to section 4.3. shall be reduced by 1 dB(A). 4.5. The final result, the temperature corrected tyre-road noise level LR(θref) in dB(A), shall be rounded down to the nearest lower whole value. Figure 1: Microphone Positions for the Measurement
Appendix 2TEST REPORTThe test report shall include the following information: (a) meteorological conditions inclusive of air and test surface temperature for each test run,
(b) date and method of check on compliance of the test surface with ISO 10844:1994,
(c) test rim width,
(d) tyre data: manufacturer, brand name, trade name, size, load index, reference pressure,
(e) test vehicle description and wheelbase,
(f) type test load Qt in N and in per cent of the reference load Qr for each test tyre, average test load Qt,avr in N and in per cent of the reference load Qr,
(g) cold inflation pressure in kPa for each test tyre,
(h) test speeds when the vehicle passed line PP′,
(i) maximum A-weighted sound levels for each test run and each microphone,
(j) the test result LR: A-weighted sound level in decibel at reference speed, corrected for temperature (if applicable), rounded down to the nearest lower whole value. (k) regression line slope. ANNEX VISPECIFICATIONS FOR THE TEST SITE1. Introduction
This annex describes the specifications relating to the physical characteristics and the laying of the test track. These specifications based on a special standard (
16
) describe the required physical characteristics as well as the test methods for these characteristics.2. Required characteristics of the surface
A surface is considered to conform to this standard provided that the texture and voids content or sound absorption coefficient have been measured and found to fulfil all the requirements of sections 2.1. to 2.4. below and provided that the design requirements (section 3.2.) have been met.2.1. Residual voids content
The residual voids content (VC) of the test track paving mixture shall not exceed 8 %. For the measurement procedure, see section 4.1.2.2. Sound absorption coefficient
If the surface fails to comply with the residual voids content requirement, the surface is acceptable only if its sound absorption coefficient α ≤ 0,10. For the measurement procedure, see section 4.2. The requirement of sections 2.1. and 2.2. is also met if only sound absorption has been measured and found to be α ≤ 0.10.Note:The most relevant characteristic is the sound absorption, although the residual voids content is more familiar among road constructors. However, sound absorption needs to be measured only if the surface fails to comply with the voids requirement.
However, sound absorption needs to be measured only if the surface fails to comply with the voids requirement. This is justified because the residual voids content has relatively large uncertainties in terms of both measurements and relevance and some surfaces may therefore erroneously be rejected when based only on the voids measurement.2.3. Texture depth
The texture depth (TD) measured according to the volumetric method (see section 4.3. below) shall be: 2.4. Homogeneity of the surface
Every practical effort shall be taken to ensure that the surface is made to be as homogeneous as possible within the test area. This includes the texture and voids content, but it should also be observed that if the rolling process results in more effective rolling at some places than others, the texture may be different and unevenness causing bumps may also occur.2.5. Period of testing
In order to check whether the surface continues to conform to the texture and voids content or sound absorption requirements stipulated in this Annex, periodic testing of the surface shall be carried out at the following intervals: (a) For residual voids content (VC) or sound absorption (α):
when the surface is new; if the surface meets the requirements when new, no further periodical testing is required. If it does not meet the requirement when it is new, it may do so later because surfaces tend to become clogged and compacted with time. (b) For texture depth (TD):
when the surface is new; when the noise testing starts (NB: not before four weeks after laying);
then every twelve months. 3. Test surface design
3.1. Area
When designing the test track layout it is important to ensure that, as a minimum requirement, the area traversed by the vehicles running through the test strip is covered with the specified test material with suitable margins for safe and practical driving. This will require that the width of the track is at least 3 m and the length of the track extends beyond lines AA and BB by at least 10 m at either end. Figure 1 shows a plan of a suitable test site and indicates the minimum area which shall be machine laid and machine compacted with the specified test surface material. According to Annex 5, Appendix 1, section 3.2., measurements have to be made on each side of the vehicle. This can be made either by measuring with two microphone locations (one on each side of the track) and driving in one direction, or measuring with a microphone only on one side of the track but driving the vehicle in two directions. If the latter method is used, then there are no surface requirements on that side of the track where there is no microphone. Figure 1
Minimum requirements for test surface area
The shaded part is called 'Test Area'. 3.2. Design and preparation of the surface
3.2.1. Basic design requirements
The test surface shall meet four design requirements: 3.2.1.1. It shall be a dense asphaltic concrete. 3.2.1.2. The maximum chipping size shall be 8 mm (tolerances allow from 6,3 mm to 10 mm). 3.2.1.3. The thickness of the wearing course shall be ≥ 30 mm.
3.2.1.4. The binder shall be a straight penetration grade bitumen without modification. 3.2.2. Design guidelines
As a guide to the surface constructor, an aggregate grading curve which will give desired characteristics is shown in Figure 2. In addition, Table 1 gives some guidelines in order to obtain the desired texture and durability. The grading curve fits the following formula: where: d
=
square mesh sieve size, in mm
dmax
=
8 mm for the mean curve
10 mm for the lower tolerance curve
6,3 mm for the upper tolerance curve
Figure 2:
Grading curve of the aggregate in the asphaltic mix with tolerances
In addition to the above, the following recommendations are made: (a) The sand fraction (0,063 mm < square mesh sieve size < 2 mm) shall include no more than 55 % natural sand and at least 45 % crushed sand. (b) The base and sub-base shall ensure a good stability and evenness, according to best road construction practice. (c) The chippings shall be crushed (100 % crushed faces) and of a material with a high resistance to crushing. (d) The chippings used in the mix shall be washed. (e) No extra chippings shall be added onto the surface. (f) The binder hardness expressed as PEN value shall be 40-60, 60-80 or even 80-100 depending on the climatic conditions of the country. The rule is that as hard a binder as possible shall be used, provided this is consistent with common practice. (g) The temperature of the mix before rolling shall be chosen so as to achieve by subsequent rolling the required voids content. In order to increase the probability of satisfying the specifications of sections 2.1. to 2.4. above, the compactness shall be studied not only by an appropriate choice of mixing temperature, but also by an appropriate number of passings and by the choice of compacting vehicle. Table 1
Design guidelines
Target values
Tolerances
By total mass of mix
By mass of the aggregate
Mass of stones, square mesh sieve (SM) > 2 mm
47,6 %
50,5 %
± 5
Mass of sand 0,063 < SM < 2 mm
38,0 %
40,2 %
± 5
Mass of filler SM <0,063 mm
8,8 %
9,3 %
± 2
Mass of binder (bitumen)
5,8 %
N.A. ± 0,5 
Max. chipping size
8 mm
6,3 - 10
Binder hardness
(see para. 3.2.2. (f))
Polished stone value (PSV)
> 50
Compactness, relative to Marshall compactness
98 %
4. Test method
4.1. Measurement of the residual voids content
For the purpose of this measurement, cores have to be taken from the track in at least four different positions which are equally distributed in the test area between lines AA and BB (see figure 1). In order to avoid non-homogeneity and unevenness in the wheel tracks, cores should not be taken in wheel tracks themselves, but close to them. Two cores (minimum) should be taken close to the wheel tracks and one core (minimum) should be taken approximately midway between the wheel tracks and each microphone location.If there is a suspicion that the condition of homogeneity is not met (see section 2.4.), cores shall be taken from more locations within the test area.The residual voids content has to be determined for each core, then the average value from all cores shall be calculated and compared with the requirement of section 2.1. In addition, no single core shall have a voids value which is higher than 10 %.The test surface constructor is reminded of the problem which may arise when the test area is heated by pipes or electrical wires and cores must be taken from this area. Such installations must be carefully planned with respect to future core drilling locations. It is recommended to leave a few locations of size approximately 200 mm × 300 mm where there are no wires/pipes or where the latter are located deep enough in order not to be damaged by cores taken from the surface layer.4.2. Sound absorption coefficient
The sound absorption coefficient (normal incidence) shall be measured by the impedance tube method using the procedure specified in ISO 10534-1: 'Acoustics — Determination of sound absorption coefficient and impedance by a tube method' (
17
).Regarding test specimens, the same requirements shall be followed as regarding the residual voids content (see section 4.1). The sound absorption shall be measured in the range between 400 Hz and 800 Hz and in the range between 800 Hz and 1 600 Hz (at least at the centre frequencies of third octave bands) and the maximum values shall be identified for both of these frequency ranges. Then these values, for all test cores, shall be averaged to constitute the final result.4.3. Volumetric macrotexture measurement
For the purpose of this standard, texture depth measurements shall be made on at least 10 positions evenly spaced along the wheel tracks of the test strip and the average value taken to compare with the specified minimum texture depth. See Standard ISO 10844:1994 for description of the procedure.5.
See Standard ISO 10844:1994 for description of the procedure.5. Stability in time and maintenance
5.1. Age influence
In common with any other surfaces, it is expected that the tyre-road noise level measured on the test surface may increase slightly during the first 6 — 12 months after construction.The surface will achieve its required characteristics not earlier than four weeks after construction. The influence of age on the noise from trucks is generally less than that from cars.Stability over time is determined mainly by polishing and compaction by vehicles driving on the surface. It shall be periodically checked as stated in section 2.5.5.2. Maintenance of the surface
Loose debris or dust which could significantly reduce the effective texture depth must be removed from the surface. In countries with winter climates, salt is sometimes used for de-icing. Salt may alter the surface temporarily or even permanently in such a way as to increase noise and is therefore not recommended.5.3. Repaving the test area
If it is necessary to repave the test track, it is usually unnecessary to repave more than the test strip (of 3 m width in figure 1) where vehicles are driving, provided the test area outside the strip met the requirement of residual voids content or sound absorption when it was measured.6. Documentation of the test surface and of tests performed on it
6.1. Documentation of the test surface
The following data shall be given in a document describing the test surface: 6.1.1. The location of the test track. 6.1.2. Type of binder, binder hardness, type of aggregate, maximum theoretical density of the concrete (DR), thickness of the wearing course and grading curve determined from cores from the test track. 6.1.3. Method of compaction (e.g. type of roller, roller mass, number of passes). 6.1.4. Temperature of the mix, temperature of the ambient air and wind speed during laying of the surface. 6.1.5. Date when the surface was laid and contractor. 6.1.6. All or at least the latest test result, including: 6.1.6.1. the residual voids content of each core; 6.1.6.2. the locations in the test area from where the cores for voids measurements have been taken; 6.1.6.3. the sound absorption coefficient of each core (if measured). Specify the results both for each core and each frequency range as well as the overall average; 6.1.6.4. the locations in the test area from where the cores for absorption measurement have been taken; 6.1.6.5. texture depth, including the number of tests and standard deviation; 6.1.6.6. the institution responsible for tests according to sections 6.1.6.1. and 6.1.6.2. and the type of equipment used; 6.1.6.7. date of the test(s) and date when the cores were taken from the test track. 6.2. Documentation of vehicle noise tests conducted on the surface
In the document describing the vehicle noise test(s) it shall be stated whether all the requirements of this standard were fulfilled or not. Reference shall be made to a document according to section 6.1. describing the results which verify this. (
1
) OJ No C 95, 12. 4. 1990, p. 101.(
2
) OJ No C 284, 12. 11. 1990, p. 81 and Decision of 12. 2. 1992 (not yet published in the Official Journal).(
3
) OJ No C 225, 10. 9. 1990, p. 9.(
4
) OJ No L 42, 23. 2. 1970, p. 1.(
5
) OJ No L 220, 8. 8. 1987, p. 44.(
6
) Economic Commission for Europe document E/ECE/324(E3/ECE/TRANS/505) REV 1 — ADD 29, 1. 4. 1975 and its amendments 01, 02 and supplements.(
7
) Economic Commission for Europe document E/ECE/324(E/ECE/TRANS/505) REV 1 — ADD 53 and supplements.(
8
) Economic Commission for Europe document E/ECE/324(E/ECE/TRANS/505) REV 1 — ADD 63 and supplements.(
9
) Directive 2001/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 June 2001 amending Council Directive 92/23/EEC relating to tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and to their fitting (OJ L 211, 4.8.2001, p. 25).(
10
) See explanatory figure, Appendix 1.(
11
) See explanatory figure, Appendix 1.(
12
) See explanatory figure, Appendix 1.(
13
) Equivalence factor from inches to mm is 25,4.(
14
) In the case of passenger car tyres intended for vehicles designed for a maximum speed greater than 240 km/h (Z rated tyres), until uniform test procedures have been agreed the manufacturer of the tyre must satisfy the technical service that his test procedure and results are acceptable.(
15
) In the case of commercial vehicle tyres intended for vehicles designed for a maximum speed greater than 150 km/h, until uniform test procedures have been agreed the manufacturer of the tyre must satisfy the technical service that his test procedure and results are acceptable.(
16
) ISO 10844:1994 If a different test surface is defined by ISO, in the future, the reference standard will be amended accordingly.(
17
) To be published.