Article 148 - Data protection
1.

Member States shall apply Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
10
) to the processing of personal data carried out in the Member States pursuant to this Regulation. 2. 
 Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
11
) shall apply to the processing of personal data carried out by the Commission and the Agency pursuant to this Regulation.
Article 145 - Standing Committee on Veterinary Medicinal Products
1.

The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee on Veterinary Medicinal Products ('the Standing Committee'). The Standing Committee shall be a committee within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 2. 
 Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply.
Article 147 - Exercise of the delegation
1. 
 The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.

2. 
 The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Articles 37(4), 57(3), 106(6), 109(1), 115(3), 118(2), 136(7) and 146(1) and (2) shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of five years from 27 January 2019. The Commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period. The delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for the periods of an identical duration, unless the European Parliament or the Council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period. 3. 
 The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Article 146(2) shall be conferred on the Commission for a period from 27 January 2019 until 28 January 2022. 4. 
 The delegation of power referred to in Articles 37(4), 57(3), 106(6), 109(1), 115(3), 118(2), 136(7) and 146(1) and (2) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force. 5. 
 Before adopting a delegated act, the Commission shall consult experts designated by each Member State in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law Making. 6. 
 As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council. 7. 
 A delegated act adopted pursuant to Articles 37(4), 57(3), 106(6), 109(1), 115(3), 118(2), 136(7) and 146(1) and (2) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or the Council within a period of two months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by two months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.
LIST OF THE OBLIGATIONS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 136(1)
ANNEX III
LIST OF THE OBLIGATIONS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 136(1)
(1) 
the obligation, as an applicant, to provide accurate information and documentation as referred to in Article 6(4);

(2) 
the obligation to provide, in an application submitted in accordance with Article 62, the data referred to in point (b) of paragraph 2 of that Article; (3) 
the obligation to comply with the conditions referred to in Articles 23 and 25; (4) 
the obligation to comply with conditions included in the marketing authorisation of the veterinary medicinal product, as referred to in Article 36(1); (5) 
the obligation to introduce any necessary variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation to take account of technical and scientific progress and enable the veterinary medicinal products to be manufactured and checked by means of generally accepted scientific methods, as provided for in Article 58(3); (6) 
the obligation to keep up to date the summary of product characteristics, package leaflet and labelling with current scientific knowledge, as provided for in Article 58(4); (7) 
the obligation to record in the product database the dates when its authorised veterinary medicinal products are placed on the market and information on the availability for each veterinary medicinal product in each relevant Member State and, as applicable, the dates of any suspension or revocation of the marketing authorisations concerned, as well as data relating to the volume of sales of the medicinal product, as provided in Article 58(6) and (11) respectively; (8) 
the obligation to provide within the time limit set at the request of a competent authority or the Agency any data demonstrating that the benefit-risk balance remains positive, as provided for in Article 58(9); (9) 
the obligation to supply any new information which may entail a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation, to notify any prohibition or restriction imposed by the competent authorities of any country in which the veterinary medicinal product is marketed, or to supply any information that may influence the evaluation of the risks and benefits of the medicinal product, as provided for in Article 58(10); (10) 
the obligation to place the veterinary medicinal product on the market in accordance with the content of the summary of the product characteristics and the labelling and package leaflet as contained in the marketing authorisation; (11) 
the obligation to record and report suspected adverse events for their veterinary medicinal products, in accordance with Article 76(2); (12) 
the obligation to collect specific pharmacovigilance data additional to the data listed in Article 73(2) and to carry out post-marketing surveillance studies in accordance with Article 76(3); (13) 
the obligation to ensure that public announcements relating to information on pharmacovigilance concerns are presented objectively and are not misleading and to notify them to the Agency, as provided for in Article 77(11); (14) 
the obligation to operate a pharmacovigilance system for the fulfilment of pharmacovigilance tasks, including maintenance of a pharmacovigilance system master file in accordance with Article 77; (15) 
the obligation to submit, at the request of the Agency, a copy of its pharmacovigilance system master file(s), as provided for in Article 79(6); (16) 
the obligation to carry out signal management process and to record the results and outcomes of that process in accordance with Article 81(1) and (2); (17) 
the obligation to provide to the Agency all available information relating to the Union interest referral, as referred to in Article 82(3).
REQUIREMENTS FOR MARKETING AUTHORISATION APPLICATIONS FOR PARTICULAR VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
ANNEX II
REQUIREMENTS FOR MARKETING AUTHORISATION APPLICATIONS FOR PARTICULAR VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
REQUIREMENTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 8(1), POINT (B)
Table of Contents
SECTION I
GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND REQUIREMENTS
I.1. General principles
I.2. Dossier composition requirements
I.2.1. Part 1: Summary of the dossier
I.2.2. Part 2: Quality documentation (physicochemical, biological or microbiological information)
I.2.3. Part 3: Safety documentation (safety and residues tests)
I.2.4. Part 4: Efficacy documentation (pre-clinical studies and clinical trial(s))
I.2.5. Detailed requirements for different types of veterinary medicinal products or marketing authorisation dossiers
SECTION II
REQUIREMENTS FOR VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OTHER THAN BIOLOGICAL VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
II.1. Part 1: Summary of the dossier
II.2. Part 2: Quality documentation (physicochemical, biological or microbiological information)
II.2A.

Product description
II.2A1. Qualitative and quantitative composition
II.2A2. Product development
II.2B. Description of the manufacturing method
II.2C. Production and control of starting material
II.2C1. Active substance(s) II.2C1.1. Active substances listed in pharmacopoeias
II.2C1.2. Active substances not listed in a pharmacopoeia
II.2C1.3. Physicochemical characteristics liable to affect bioavailability
II.2C2. Excipients
II.2C3. Packaging (container-closure systems)
II.2C3.1. Active substance
II.2C3.2. Finished product
II.2C4. Substances of biological origin
II.2D. Control tests carried out on isolated intermediates during the manufacturing process
II.2E. Control tests on the finished product
II.2E1. General characteristics of the finished product
II.2E2. Identification and assay of active substance(s) II.2E3. Identification and assay of excipient components
II.2E4. Microbiological controls
II.2E5. Batch-to-batch consistency
II.2E6. Other controls
II.2F. Stability test
II.2F1. Active substance(s) II.2F2. Finished product
II.2G. Other information
II.3
Part 3: Safety documentation (safety and residues tests)
II.3A. Safety tests
II.3A1. Precise identification of the product and of its active substance(s) II.3A2. Pharmacology
II.3A2.1. Pharmacodynamics
II.3A2.2. Pharmacokinetics
II.3A3. Toxicology
II.3A4. Other requirements
II.3A.4.1. Special studies
II.3A.4.2. Observations in humans
II.3A.4.3. Development of resistance and related risk in humans
II.3A5. User safety
II.3A6. Environmental risk assessment
II.3B. Residue tests
II.3B1. Identification of the product
II.3B2. Depletion of residues (metabolism and residue kinetics)
II.3B3. Residue analytical method
II.4. Part 4: Efficacy documentation (pre-clinical studies and clinical trial(s))
II.4A. Pre-clinical studies
II.4A1. Pharmacology
II.4A.1.1. Pharmacodynamics
II.4A.1.2. Pharmacokinetics
II.4A2. Development of resistance and related risk in animals
II.4A3. Dose determination and confirmation
II.4A4. Tolerance in the target animal species
II.4B. Clinical trial(s) II.4B1. General principles
II.4B2. Documentation
II.4B2.1. Results of pre-clinical studies
II.4B2.2. Results of clinical trials
SECTION III
REQUIREMENTS FOR BIOLOGICAL VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
SECTION IIIa
REQUIREMENTS FOR BIOLOGICAL VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OTHER THAN IMMUNOLOGICAL VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
IIIa.1. Part 1: Summary of the dossier
IIIa.2. Part 2: Quality documentation (physicochemical, biological or microbiological information)
IIIa.2A. Product description
IIIa.2A1. Qualitative and quantitative composition
IIIa.2A2. Product development
IIIa.2A3. Characterisation
IIIa.2A3.1. Elucidation of structure and other characteristics
IIIa.2A3.2. Impurities
IIIa.2B. Description of the manufacturing method
IIIa.2C. Production and control of starting materials
IIIa.2C1. Starting materials listed in pharmacopoeias
IIIa.2C2. Starting materials not listed in a pharmacopoeia
IIIa.2C2.1. Starting materials of biological origin
IIIa.2C2.2. Starting materials of non-biological origin
IIIa.2D. Control tests during the manufacturing process
IIIa.2E. Control tests on the finished product
IIIa.2E1
Finish product specification
IIIa.2E2
Method descriptions and validation of release tests
IIIa.2E3. Reference standards or materials
IIIa.2F. Batch-to-batch consistency
IIIa.2F1. Active substance
IIIa.2F2. Finished product
IIIa.2G. Stability tests
IIIa.2H. Other information
IIIa.3. Part 3: Safety documentation (safety and residues tests)
IIIa.3A. Safety tests
IIIa.3A1. Precise identification of the product and of its active substance(s):
IIIa.3A2. Pharmacology
IIIa.3A2.1. Pharmacodynamics
IIIa.3A2.2. Pharmacokinetics
IIIa.3A3. Toxicology
IIIa.3A3.1. Single-dose toxicity
IIIa.3A3.2. Repeat-dose toxicity
IIIa.3A3.3. Tolerance in the target species
IIIa.3A3.4. Reproductive toxicity including developmental toxicity
IIIa.3A3.5. Genotoxicity
IIIa.3A3.6. Carcinogenicity
IIIa.3A3.7. Exceptions
IIIa.3A4. Other requirements
IIIa.3A4.1. Special studies
IIIa.3A4.2. Observations in humans
IIIa.3A4.3. Development of resistance and related risk in humans
IIIa.3A5. User safety
IIIa.3A6. Environmental risk assessment
IIIa.3A6.1. Environmental risk assessment of veterinary medicinal products not containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms
IIIa.3A6.2. Environmental risk assessment for veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms
IIIa.3B. Residue tests
IIIa.3B1. Identification of the product
IIIa.3B2. Depletion of residues
IIIa.3B3. Residue analytical method
IIIa.4. Part 4: Efficacy documentation (pre-clinical studies and clinical trial(s))
IIIa.4A. Pre-clinical studies
IIIa.4A1. Pharmacology
IIIa.4A1.1. Pharmacodynamics
IIIa.4A1.2. Pharmacokinetics
IIIa.4A2. Development of resistance and related risk in animals
IIIa.4A3. Dose determination and confirmation
IIIa.4A4. Tolerance in the target animal species
IIIa.4B. Clinical trials
IIIa.4B1. General principles
IIIa.4B2. Documentation
IIIa.4B2.1. Clinical trials
IIIa.4B2.2. Clinical trials
SECTION IIIb
REQUIREMENTS FOR IMMUNOLOGICAL VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
IIIb.1. Part 1: Summary of the dossier
IIIb.2. Part 2: Quality documentation (physicochemical, biological and microbiological information)
IIIb.2.A.
Product description
IIIb.2A1. Qualitative and quantitative composition
IIIb.2A2. Product development
IIIb.2B. Description of the manufacturing method
IIIb.2C. Production and control of starting materials
IIIb.2C1. Starting materials listed in pharmacopoeias
IIIb.2C2. Starting materials not listed in a pharmacopoeia
IIIb.2C2.1. Starting materials of biological origin
IIIb.2C2.2. Starting materials of non-biological origin
IIIb.2D. Control tests during the manufacturing process
IIIb.2E. Control tests on the finished product
IIIb.2F. Batch-to-batch consistency
IIIb.2G. Stability tests
IIIb.2H. Other information
IIIb.3. Part 3: Safety documentation (safety and residues tests)
IIIb.3A. General requirements
IIIb.3B. Pre-clinical studies
IIIb.3C. Clinical trials
IIIb.3D. Environmental risk assessment
IIIb.3E. Assessment required for veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms
IIIb.3F. Residue tests to be included in the laboratory studies
IIIb.4. Part 4: Efficacy documentation (pre-clinical studies and clinical trial(s))
IIIb.4A. General requirements
IIIb.4B. Pre-clinical studies
IIIb.4C. Clinical trials
SECTION IV
REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC MARKETING AUTHORISATION APPLICATIONS
IV.1. Applications for generic veterinary medicinal products
IV.2. Applications for hybrid veterinary medicinal products
IV.3. Applications for combination veterinary medicinal products
IV.4. Applications based on informed consent
IV.5. Applications based on bibliographic data
IV.6.
Article 3 - Conflict of laws
1.

Where a veterinary medicinal product referred to in Article 2(1) of this Regulation also falls within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
2
) or Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003, and there is a conflict between this Regulation and Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 or Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003, this Regulation shall prevail. 2. 
 For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Commission may, by means of implementing acts, adopt decisions on whether a specific product or group of products is to be considered as a veterinary medicinal product. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 145(2).
| Directive 2001/82/EC | This Regulation |
|---|---|
| Article 1 | Article 4 |
| Article 2(1) | Article 2(1) |
| Article 2(2) | Article 3 |
| Article 2(3) | Article 2(2),(3) and (4) |
| Article 3 | Article 2(4) |
| Article 4(2) | Article 5(6) |
| Article 5 | Article 5 |
| Article 5(1) second sentence | Article 38(3) |
| Article 5(2) | Article 58(1) |
| Article 6(1), (2) | Article 8(3) |
| Article 6(3) | Article 8(4) |
| Article 7 | Article 116 |
| Article 8 | Article 116 |
| Article 8 third sentence |  |
| Article 9 | Article 9 |
| Article 10 | Article 112 |
| Article 11 | Articles 113, 114 and 115 |
| Article 12 | Article 8 |
| Article 13(1) | Article 18 |
| Article 13(2) | Article 4(8) and (9) |
| Article 13(3),(4) | Article 19 |
| Article 13(5) | Articles 38, 39 and 40 |
| Article 13(6) | Article 41 |
| Article 13a | Article 22 |
| Article 13b | Article 20 |
| Article 13c | Article 21 |
| Article 14 | Article 35 |
| Article 16 | Article 85 |
| Article 17 | Article 86 |
| Article 18 | Article 87 |
| Article 19 | Article 85 |
| Article 20 | Article 85 |
| Article 21(1) | Article 47 |
| Article 21(2) | Article 46 |
| Article 22 | Article 48 |
| Article 23 | Articles 28 and 29 |
| Article 24 | Article 30 |
| Article 25 | Article 33 |
| Article 26(3) | Articles 25 and 26 |
| Article 27 | Article 58 |
| Article 27a | Article 58(6) |
| Article 27b | Article 60 |
| Article 28 | Article 5(2) |
| Article 30 | Article 37 |
| Article 31 | Articles 142 and 143 |
| Article 32 | Articles 49 and 52 |
| Article 33 | Article 54 |
| Article 35 | Article 82 |
| Article 36 | Article 83 |
| Article 37 | Article 84 |
| Article 38 | Article 84 |
| Article 39 | Article 60 |
| Article 40 | Article 129 |
| Article 44 | Article 88 |
| Article 45 | Article 89 |
| Article 46 | Article 90 |
| Article 47 | Article 90 |
| Article 48 | Article 92 |
| Article 49 | Article 90 |
| Article 50 | Articles 93 and 96 |
| Article 50a | Article 95 |
| Article 51 | Article 89 |
| Article 52 | Article 97 |
| Article 53 | Article 97 |
| Article 55 | Article 97 |
| Article 56 | Article 97 |
| Article 58 | Articles 10 and 11 |
| Article 59 | Article 12 |
| Article 60 | Article 11(4) |
| Article 61 | Article 14 |
| Article 64 | Article 16 |
| Article 65 | Articles 99 and 100 |
| Article 66 | Article 103 |
| Article 67 | Article 34 |
| Article 68 | Article 103 |
| Article 69 | Article 108 |
| Article 70 | Article 111 |
| Article 71 | Article 110 |
| Article 72 | Article 73 |
| Article 73 | Articles 73 and 74 |
| Article 74 | Article 78 |
| Article 75 | Article 77 |
| Article 76 | Article 79 |
| Article 78(2) | Article 130 |
| Article 80 | Article 123 |
| Article 81 | Article 127 |
| Article 82 | Article 128 |
| Article 83 | Articles 129 and 130 |
| Article 84 | Article 134 |
| Article 85(1),(2) | Article 133 |
| Article 85(3) | Articles 119 and 120 |
| Article 87 | Article 79(2) |
| Article 88 | Article 146 |
| Article 89 | Article 145 |
| Article 90 | Article 137 |
| Article 93 | Article 98 |
| Article 95 | Article 9(2) |
| Article 95a | Article 117 |
Article 159 - Transitional provisions regarding certain certificates of good manufacturing practice
Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the obligations regarding certificates of good manufacturing practice for inactivated immunological veterinary medicinal products which are manufactured from pathogens and antigens obtained from an animal or animals in an epidemiological unit and used for the treatment of that animal or those animals in the same epidemiological unit or for the treatment of an animal or animals in a unit having a confirmed epidemiological link shall only start to apply from the date of application of the implementing acts laying down specific measures on good manufacturing practice for those veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 93(2).
Article 151 - Prior applications
1. 
 The procedures concerning the applications for marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products or for variations that have been validated in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 before 28 January 2022 shall be completed in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.

2. 
 The procedures concerning the applications for marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products that have been validated in accordance with Directive 2001/82/EC before 28 January 2022 shall be completed in accordance with that Directive. 3. 
 Procedures initiated on the basis of Articles 33, 34, 35, 39, 40 and 78 of Directive 2001/82/EC before 28 January 2022 shall be completed in accordance with that Directive.
Article 144 - Tasks of the coordination group
The coordination group shall have the following tasks:

(a) 
examine questions concerning mutual recognition and decentralised procedures; (b) 
examine advice from the pharmacovigilance working party of the Committee concerning risk management measures in pharmacovigilance related to veterinary medicinal products authorised in Member States and issue recommendations to the Member States and to the marketing authorisation holders, as necessary; (c) 
examine questions concerning variations to the terms of marketing authorisations granted by Member States; (d) 
provide recommendations to Member States whether a specific veterinary medicinal product or a group of veterinary medicinal products is to be considered a veterinary medicinal product within the scope of this Regulation; (e) 
coordinate the selection of the lead authority responsible for the assessment of the results of the signal management process referred to in Article 81(4); (f) 
draw up and publish an annual list of reference veterinary medicinal products which shall be subject to harmonisation of the summaries of product characteristics in accordance with Article 70(3).
Article 143 - Members of the coordination group
1. 
 The coordination group shall be composed of one representative per Member State appointed for a renewable period of three years.

Member States may appoint an alternate representative. Members of the coordination group may arrange to be accompanied by experts. 2. 
 Members of the coordination group and their experts shall rely on the scientific and regulatory resources available to their competent authorities, on the relevant scientific assessments and on the recommendations of the Committee for the fulfilment of their tasks. Each competent authority shall monitor the quality of the evaluations carried out by their representative and facilitate their activities. 3. 
 Members of the coordination group shall use their best endeavours to reach consensus on matters under discussion.
Article 125 - Certificate of suitability
In order to verify whether the data submitted for obtaining a certificate of suitability complies with the monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia, the standardisation body for nomenclatures and quality norms within the meaning of the Convention on the elaboration of a European Pharmacopoeia accepted by Council Decision 94/358/EC (
9
) (European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and Healthcare ('EDQM')) may ask the Commission or the Agency to request an inspection by a competent authority when the starting material concerned is subject to a European Pharmacopoeia monograph.
Article 136 - Financial penalties imposed by the Commission on holders of marketing authorisation for centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products
1.

The Commission may impose financial penalties in the form of fines or periodic penalty payments on the holders of marketing authorisation for centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products granted under this Regulation if they fail to comply with any of their obligations laid down in Annex III in connection with the marketing authorisations. 2. 
 The Commission may, insofar as specifically provided for in the delegated acts referred to in point (b) of paragraph 7, impose the financial penalties referred to in paragraph 1 also on a legal entity or legal entities other than the marketing authorisation holder provided that such entities form part of the same economic entity as the marketing authorisation holder and that such other legal entities: (a) 
exerted a decisive influence over the marketing authorisation holder; or
(b) 
were involved in, or could have addressed, such failure to comply with the obligation by the marketing authorisation holder. 3. 
 Where the Agency or a competent authority of a Member State is of the opinion that a marketing authorisation holder has failed to comply with any of the obligations, as referred to in paragraph 1, it may request the Commission to investigate whether to impose financial penalties pursuant to that paragraph. 4. 
 In determining whether to impose a financial penalty and in determining its appropriate amount, the Commission shall be guided by the principles of effectiveness, proportionality and dissuasiveness and take into consideration, where relevant, the seriousness and the effects of the failure to comply with the obligations. 5. 
 For the purposes of paragraph 1, the Commission shall also take into account: (a) 
any infringement procedure initiated by a Member State against the same marketing authorisation holder on the basis of the same legal grounds and the same facts; and
(b) 
any sanctions, including penalties, already imposed on the same marketing authorisation holder on the basis of the same legal grounds and the same facts. 6. 
 Where the Commission finds that the marketing authorisation holder has failed, intentionally or negligently, to comply with its obligations, as referred to in paragraph 1, it may adopt a decision imposing a fine not exceeding 5 % of the marketing authorisation holder's Union turnover in the business year preceding the date of that decision. Where the marketing authorisation holder continues to fail to comply with its obligations referred to in paragraph 1, the Commission may adopt a decision imposing periodic penalty payments per day not exceeding 2,5 % of the marketing authorisation holder's average daily Union turnover in the business year preceding the date of that decision. Periodic penalty payments may be imposed for a period running from the date of notification of the relevant Commission's decision until the failure to comply with the obligation by the marketing authorisation holder, as referred to in paragraph 1, has been brought to an end. 7. 
 The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 147 in order to supplement this Regulation by laying down: (a) 
procedures to be applied by the Commission when imposing fines or periodic penalty payments, including rules on the initiation of the procedure, measures of inquiry, rights of defence, access to file, legal representation and confidentiality; (b) 
further detailed rules on the imposition by the Commission of financial penalties on legal entities other than the marketing authorisation holder; (c) 
rules on duration of procedure and limitation periods; (d) 
elements to be taken into account by the Commission when setting the level of, and imposing, fines and periodic penalty payments, as well as the conditions and methods for their collection. 8. 
 When conducting the investigation on a failure to comply with any of the obligations referred to in paragraph 1, the Commission may cooperate with national competent authorities and rely on resources provided by the Agency. 9. 
 Where the Commission adopts a decision imposing a financial penalty, it shall publish a concise summary of the case, including the names of the marketing authorisation holders involved and the amounts of, and reasons for, the financial penalties imposed, having regard to the legitimate interest of the marketing authorisation holders for the protection of their business secrets. 10. 
 The Court of Justice of the European Union shall have unlimited jurisdiction to review decisions whereby the Commission has imposed financial penalties. The Court of Justice of the European Union may cancel, reduce or increase the fine or periodic penalty payment imposed by the Commission.
Article 133 - Suspending or revoking manufacturing authorisations
In the event of non-compliance with the requirements laid down in Article 93, the competent authority shall, without prejudice to any other appropriate measures under national law, take one or more of the following measures:

(a) 
suspend the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products; (b) 
suspend imports of veterinary medicinal products from third countries; (c) 
suspend or revoke the manufacturing authorisation for one or more pharmaceutical forms; (d) 
suspend or revoke the manufacturing authorisation for one or more activities in one or more manufacturing sites.
Article 130 - Suspending, revoking, or varying the terms, of marketing authorisations
1. 
 The competent authority or, in the case of centralised marketing authorisations, the Commission shall suspend or revoke the marketing authorisation or request the marketing authorisation holder to submit an application for a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation if the benefit-risk balance of the veterinary medicinal product is no longer positive or is insufficient to ensure food safety.

2. 
 The competent authority or, in the case of centralised marketing authorisations, the Commission, shall revoke the marketing authorisation if the marketing authorisation holder no longer fulfils the requirement on establishment in the Union referred to in Article 5(4). 3. 
 The competent authority or, in the case of centralised marketing authorisations, the Commission may suspend or revoke the marketing authorisation or request the marketing authorisation holder to submit an application for a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation, as applicable, in the case of one or more of the following reasons: (a) 
the marketing authorisation holder does not comply with the requirements set out in Article 58; (b) 
the marketing authorisation holder does not comply with the requirements set out in Article 127; (c) 
the pharmacovigilance system established in accordance with Article 77(1) is inadequate; (d) 
the marketing authorisation holder does not fulfil its obligations laid down in Article 77; (e) 
the qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance does not fulfil his or her tasks as laid down in Article 78. 4. 
 For the purpose of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, in the case of centralised marketing authorisations, before taking action, the Commission shall request, where appropriate, the opinion of the Agency within a time limit which it shall determine in view of the urgency of the matter, in order to examine the reasons referred to in those paragraphs. The holder of the marketing authorisation for the veterinary medicinal product shall be invited to provide oral or written explanations within a given time limit set by the Commission. Following an opinion of the Agency, the Commission shall adopt, where necessary, provisional measures, which shall be applied immediately. The Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, take a final decision. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 145(2). 5. 
 Member States shall lay down procedures for application of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.
Article 139 - Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products
1. 
 A Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products ('the Committee') is hereby set up within the Agency.

2. 
 The Executive Director of the Agency or his or her representative and representatives of the Commission shall be entitled to attend all meetings of the Committee, working parties and scientific advisory groups. 3. 
 The Committee may establish standing and temporary working parties. The Committee may establish scientific advisory groups in connection with the evaluation of specific types of veterinary medicinal products, to which the Committee may delegate certain tasks associated with drawing up the scientific opinions referred to in point (b) of Article 141(1). 4. 
 The Committee shall establish a standing working party with the sole remit of providing scientific advice to undertakings. The Executive Director, in consultation with the Committee shall set up the administrative structures and procedures allowing the development of advice for undertakings, as referred to in point (n) of Article 57(1) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, particularly regarding the development of novel therapy veterinary medicinal products. 5. 
 The Committee shall establish a standing working party for pharmacovigilance with a remit including evaluating potential signals in pharmacovigilance arising from the Union pharmacovigilance system, proposing the options for risk management referred to in Article 79 to the Committee and to the coordination group, and coordinating the communication about pharmacovigilance between the competent authorities and the Agency. 6. 
 The Committee shall establish its own rules of procedure. Those rules shall, in particular, lay down: (a) 
procedures for appointing and replacing the Chair; (b) 
the appointment of members of any working parties or scientific advisory groups on the basis of the lists of accredited experts referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 62(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and procedures for consultation of working parties and scientific advisory groups; (c) 
a procedure for urgent adoption of opinions, particularly in relation to the provisions of this Regulation on market surveillance and pharmacovigilance. The rules of procedure shall enter into force after receiving a favourable opinion from the Commission and the Management Board of the Agency. 7. 
 The Secretariat of the Agency shall provide technical, scientific and administrative support for the Committee, and shall ensure consistency and quality of opinions of the Committee and appropriate coordination between the Committee and other committees of the Agency referred to in Article 56 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and the coordination group. 8. 
 The opinions of the Committee shall be publicly accessible.
Article 98 - Certificates of veterinary medicinal products
1.

On the request of a manufacturer or an exporter of veterinary medicinal products, or of the authorities of an importing third country, the competent authority or the Agency shall certify that: (a) 
the manufacturer holds a manufacturing authorisation; (b) 
the manufacturer possesses a certificate of good manufacturing practice as referred to in Article 94; or
(c) 
the veterinary medicinal product concerned has been granted a marketing authorisation in that Member State or, in the case of a request to the Agency, that it has been granted a centralised marketing authorisation. 2. 
 When issuing such certificates, the competent authority or the Agency, as applicable, shall take into account the relevant prevailing administrative arrangements with regard to the content and format of such certificates.
Article 95 - Importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances established in the Union
1.

Importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances used as starting materials in veterinary medicinal products, that are established in the Union, shall register their activity with the competent authority of the Member State in which they are established and shall comply with good manufacturing practice or good distribution practice, as applicable. 2. 
 The registration form for registering the activity with the competent authority shall include at least the following information: (a) 
name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business; (b) 
the active substances which are to be imported, manufactured or distributed; (c) 
particulars regarding the premises and the technical equipment. 3. 
 The importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances referred to in paragraph 1 shall submit the registration form to the competent authority at least 60 days prior to the intended start of their activity. The importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances in operation before 28 January 2022 shall submit the registration form to the competent authority by 29 March 2022. 4. 
 The competent authority may, based on a risk assessment, decide to carry out an inspection. If the competent authority notifies within 60 days of receipt of the registration form that an inspection will be carried out, the activity shall not begin before the competent authority has notified that the activity may start. In such a case, the competent authority shall carry out the inspection and communicate to the importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances referred to in paragraph 1 the results of the inspection within 60 days of the notification of its intention to carry out the inspection. If within 60 days of receipt of the registration form the competent authority has not notified that an inspection will be carried out, the activity may start. 5. 
 The importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances referred to in paragraph 1 shall communicate annually to the competent authority the changes which have taken place as regards the information provided in the registration form. Any changes that may have an impact on the quality or safety of the active substances that are manufactured, imported or distributed shall be notified immediately. 6. 
 Competent authorities shall enter the information provided in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article and with Article 132 in the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database referred to in Article 91. 7. 
 This Article shall be without prejudice to Article 94. 8. 
 The Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt measures on good distribution practice for active substances used as starting materials in veterinary medicinal products. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 145(2).
Article 88 - Manufacturing authorisations
1. 
 A manufacturing authorisation shall be required in order to carry out any of the following activities:

(a) 
to manufacture veterinary medicinal products even if intended only for export; (b) 
to engage in any part of the process of manufacturing a veterinary medicinal product or of bringing a veterinary medicinal product to its final state, including engagement in the processing, assembling, packaging and repackaging, labelling and relabelling, storing, sterilising, testing or releasing it for supply as part of that process; or
(c) 
to import veterinary medicinal products. 2. 
 Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, Member States may decide that a manufacturing authorisation shall not be required for preparation, dividing up, changes in packaging or presentation of veterinary medicinal products, where those processes are carried out solely for retail directly to the public in accordance with Articles 103 and 104. 3. 
 Where paragraph 2 applies, the package leaflet shall be given with each divided part and the batch number and expiry date shall be clearly indicated. 4. 
 The competent authorities shall record the manufacturing authorisations granted by them in the database on manufacturing and wholesale distribution set up in accordance with Article 91. 5. 
 Manufacturing authorisations shall be valid throughout the Union.
Article 126 - Specific rules on pharmacovigilance inspections
1. 
 The competent authorities and the Agency shall ensure that all pharmacovigilance system master files in the Union are regularly checked and that the pharmacovigilance systems are being correctly applied.

2. 
 The Agency shall coordinate and the competent authorities shall carry out inspections on the pharmacovigilance systems of veterinary medicinal products authorised in accordance with Article 44. 3. 
 The competent authorities shall carry out inspections on the pharmacovigilance systems of veterinary medicinal products authorised in accordance with Articles 47, 49, 52 and 53. 4. 
 The competent authorities of the Member States in which the pharmacovigilance system master files are located shall carry out inspections of the pharmacovigilance systems master files. 5. 
 Notwithstanding paragraph 4 of this Article and pursuant to Article 80, a competent authority may enter into any work-sharing initiatives and delegation of responsibilities with other competent authorities to avoid the duplication of inspections of pharmacovigilance systems. 6. 
 The results of the pharmacovigilance inspections shall be recorded in the pharmacovigilance database as referred to in Article 74.
Article 123 - Controls
1.

Competent authorities shall carry out controls of the following persons: (a) 
manufacturers and importers of veterinary medicinal products and active substances; (b) 
distributors of active substances; (c) 
marketing authorisation holders; (d) 
holders of a wholesale distribution authorisation; (e) 
retailers; (f) 
owners and keepers of food-producing animals; (g) 
veterinarians; (h) 
holders of a registration for homeopathic veterinary medicinal products; (i) 
holders of veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 5(6); and
(j) 
any other persons having obligations under this Regulation. 2. 
 The controls referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out regularly, on a risk-basis, in order to verify that the persons referred to in paragraph 1 comply with this Regulation. 3. 
 The risk-based controls referred to in paragraph 2 shall be carried out by the competent authorities taking account of at least: (a) 
the intrinsic risks associated with the activities of the persons referred to in paragraph 1 and the location of their activities; (b) 
the past record of the persons referred to paragraph 1 as regards the results of controls performed on them and their previous compliance; (c) 
any information that might indicate non-compliance; (d) 
the potential impact of non-compliance on public health, animal health, animal welfare and the environment. 4. 
 Controls may also be carried out on the request of a competent authority of another Member State, the Commission or the Agency. 5. 
 Controls shall be carried out by representatives of the competent authority. 6. 
 Inspections may be carried out as part of the controls. Such inspections may be made unannounced. During those inspections the representatives of a competent authority shall at least be empowered to: (a) 
inspect the premises, equipment, means of transport, records, documents and systems, related to the objective of the inspection; (b) 
inspect and take samples with a view to submitting them for an independent analysis by an Official Medicines Control Laboratory or by a laboratory designated for that purpose by a Member State; (c) 
document any evidence deemed necessary by the representatives; (d) 
carry out the same controls on any parties performing the tasks required under this Regulation with, for or on behalf of the persons referred to in paragraph 1. 
 7. 
 The representatives of the competent authorities shall keep a record of every control that they carry out and where necessary shall draw up a report. The person referred to in paragraph 1 shall be promptly informed in writing by the competent authority of any case of non-compliance identified through the controls and shall have the opportunity to submit comments within a time limit set by the competent authority. 8. 
 The competent authorities shall have procedures or arrangements in place to ensure that staff performing controls are free from any conflict of interest.
Article 134 - Prohibiting the supply of veterinary medicinal products
1.

In the event of a risk to public or animal health or to the environment, the competent authority or, in the case of centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products, the Commission, shall prohibit the supply of a veterinary medicinal product and require the marketing authorisation holder or suppliers to cease the supply or recall of the veterinary medicinal product from the market if any of the following conditions apply: (a) 
the benefit-risk balance of the veterinary medicinal product is no longer positive; (b) 
the qualitative or quantitative composition of the veterinary medicinal product is not as stated in the summary of the product characteristics referred to in Article 35; (c) 
the recommended withdrawal period is insufficient to ensure food safety; (d) 
the control tests referred to in Article 127(1) have not been carried out; or
(e) 
the incorrect labelling might lead to a serious risk to animal or public health. 2. 
 The competent authorities or the Commission may confine the prohibition on supply and recall from the market solely to the contested production batches of the veterinary medicinal product concerned.
Article 140 - Members of the Committee
1. 
 Each Member State shall, after consultation of the Management Board of the Agency, appoint for a three-year term which may be renewed, one member and an alternate member of the Committee.

The alternates shall represent and vote for the members in their absence and may also be appointed to act as rapporteurs. 2. 
 Members and alternates of the Committee shall be appointed on the basis of their relevant expertise and experience in the scientific assessment of veterinary medicinal products, in order to guarantee the highest level of qualifications and a broad spectrum of relevant expertise. 3. 
 A Member State may delegate its tasks within the Committee to another Member State. Each Member State may represent no more than one other Member State. 4. 
 The Committee may co-opt a maximum of five additional members chosen on the basis of their specific scientific competence. Those members shall be appointed for a term of three years, which may be renewed, and shall not have alternates. 5. 
 With a view to the co-opting of such members, the Committee shall identify the specific complementary scientific competence of the additional members. Co-opted members shall be chosen among experts nominated by Member States or the Agency. 6. 
 The Committee may appoint, for the purpose of performing its tasks referred to in Article 141, one of its members to act as rapporteur. The Committee may also appoint a second member to act as a co-rapporteur. 7. 
 The members of the Committee may be accompanied by experts in specific scientific or technical fields. 8. 
 Members of the Committee and experts responsible for assessing veterinary medicinal products shall rely on the scientific evaluation and resources available to competent authorities. Each competent authority shall monitor and ensure the scientific level and independence of the evaluation carried out and provide appropriate contribution to the tasks of the Committee, and facilitate the activities of appointed Committee members and experts. To that end, Member States shall provide adequate scientific and technical resources to the members and experts they have nominated. 9. 
 Member States shall refrain from giving Committee members and experts instructions incompatible with their own individual tasks, or with the tasks of the Committee and responsibilities of the Agency.
Article 131 - Suspending or revoking a wholesale distribution authorisation
1.

In the event of non-compliance with the requirements laid down in Article 101(3), the competent authority shall suspend or revoke the wholesale distribution authorisation of veterinary medicinal products. 2. 
 In the event of non-compliance with the requirements laid down in Article 101, other than paragraph 3 thereof, the competent authority may, without prejudice to any other appropriate measures under national law, take one or more of the following measures: (a) 
suspend the wholesale distribution authorisation; (b) 
suspend the wholesale distribution authorisation for one or more categories of veterinary medicinal products; (c) 
revoke the wholesale distribution authorisation for one or more categories of veterinary medicinal products.
(1) 'veterinary medicinal product' means any substance or combination of substances which fulfils at least one of the following conditions: (a) it is presented as having properties for treating or preventing disease in animals; (b) its purpose is to be used in, or administered to, animals with a view to restoring, correcting or modifying physiological functions by exerting a pharmacological, immunological or metabolic action; (c) its purpose is to be used in animals with a view to making a medical diagnosis; (d) its purpose is to be used for euthanasia of animals;
Article 149 - Repeal
Directive 2001/82/EC is repealed.

References to the repealed Directive shall be construed as references to this Regulation and shall be read in accordance with the correlation table set out in Annex IV.
Article 142 - Coordination group for mutual recognition and decentralised procedures for veterinary medicinal products
1.

The coordination group for mutual recognition and decentralised procedures for veterinary medicinal products ('the coordination group') shall be set up. 2. 
 The Agency shall provide a secretariat for the coordination group to assist in the operations of the procedures of the coordination group and to ensure an appropriate liaison between this group, the Agency and competent authorities. 3. 
 The coordination group shall draw up its rules of procedure, which shall enter into force after receiving a favourable opinion from the Commission. Those rules of procedure shall be made public. 4. 
 The Executive Director of the Agency or his or her representative and representatives of the Commission shall be entitled to attend all meetings of the coordination group. 5. 
 The coordination group shall cooperate closely with the competent authorities and the Agency.
Article 141 - Tasks of the Committee
1. 
 The Committee shall have the following tasks:

(a) 
carry out the tasks conferred on it under this Regulation and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004; (b) 
prepare scientific opinions of the Agency on questions relating to the evaluation and use of veterinary medicinal products; (c) 
prepare opinions on scientific matters concerning the evaluation and use of veterinary medicinal products on the request of the Executive Director of the Agency or the Commission; (d) 
prepare opinions of the Agency on questions concerning the admissibility of applications submitted in accordance with the centralised procedure, and on granting, varying, suspending or revoking marketing authorisations for centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products; (e) 
take due account of any request made by Member States for scientific opinions; (f) 
provide guidance on important questions and issues of general scientific nature; (g) 
give a scientific opinion, in the context of cooperation with the World Organisation for Animal Health, concerning the evaluation of certain veterinary medicinal products intended exclusively for markets outside the Union; (h) 
advise on the maximum limits for residues of veterinary medicinal products and biocidal products used in animal husbandry which may be accepted in foodstuffs of animal origin in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 470/2009; (i) 
provide scientific advice on the use of antimicrobials and antiparasitics in animals in order to minimise the occurrence of resistance in the Union, and update that advice when needed; (j) 
provide objective scientific opinions to the Member States on the questions which are referred to the Committee. 2. 
 The members of the Committee shall ensure that there is appropriate coordination between the tasks of the Agency and the work of competent authorities. 3. 
 When preparing opinions, the Committee shall use its best endeavours to reach a scientific consensus. If such consensus cannot be reached, the opinion shall consist of the position of the majority of members and divergent positions, with the grounds on which they are based. 4. 
 If there is a request for re-examination of an opinion where this possibility is provided for in the Union law, the Committee shall appoint a different rapporteur and, where necessary, a different co-rapporteur from those appointed for the opinion. The re-examination procedure may deal only with the points of the opinion initially identified by the applicant and may be based only on the scientific data available when the Committee adopted the opinion. The applicant may request that the Committee consult a scientific advisory group in connection with the re-examination.
Article 4 - Definitions
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply:

(1) 
'veterinary medicinal product' means any substance or combination of substances which fulfils at least one of the following conditions: (a) 
it is presented as having properties for treating or preventing disease in animals; (b) 
its purpose is to be used in, or administered to, animals with a view to restoring, correcting or modifying physiological functions by exerting a pharmacological, immunological or metabolic action; (c) 
its purpose is to be used in animals with a view to making a medical diagnosis; (d) 
its purpose is to be used for euthanasia of animals; (2) 
'substance' means any matter of the following origin: (a) 
human; (b) 
animal; (c) 
vegetable; (d) 
chemical; (3) 
'active substance' means any substance or mixture of substances intended to be used in the manufacture of a veterinary medicinal product that, when used in its production, becomes an active ingredient of that product; (4) 
'excipient' means any constituent of a veterinary medicinal product other than an active substance or packaging material; (5) 
'immunological veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product intended to be administered to an animal in order to produce active or passive immunity or to diagnose its state of immunity; (6) 
'biological veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product where an active substance is a biological substance; (7) 
'biological substance' means a substance that is produced by or extracted from a biological source and that needs for its characterisation and the determination of its quality a combination of physico-chemical-biological testing, together with knowledge of the production process and its control; (8) 
'reference veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product authorised in accordance with Article 44, 47, 49, 52, 53 or 54 as referred to in Article 5(1) on the basis of an application submitted in accordance with Article 8; (9) 
'generic veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product which has the same qualitative and quantitative composition of active substances and the same pharmaceutical form as the reference veterinary medicinal product, and with regard to which bioequivalence with the reference veterinary medicinal product has been demonstrated; (10) 
'homeopathic veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product prepared from homeopathic stocks in accordance with a homeopathic manufacturing procedure described by the European Pharmacopoeia or, in the absence thereof, by the pharmacopoeias used officially in Member States; (11) 
'antimicrobial resistance' means the ability of micro-organisms to survive or to grow in the presence of a concentration of an antimicrobial agent which is usually sufficient to inhibit or kill micro-organisms of the same species; (12) 
'antimicrobial' means any substance with a direct action on micro-organisms used for treatment or prevention of infections or infectious diseases, including antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals and anti-protozoals; (13) 
'antiparasitic' means a substance that kills or interrupts the development of parasites, used for the purpose of treating or preventing an infection, infestation or disease caused or transmitted by parasites, including substances with a repelling activity; (14) 
'antibiotic' means any substance with a direct action on bacteria that is used for treatment or prevention of infections or infectious diseases; (15) 
'metaphylaxis' means the administration of a medicinal product to a group of animals after a diagnosis of clinical disease in part of the group has been established, with the aim of treating the clinically sick animals and controlling the spread of the disease to animals in close contact and at risk and which may already be subclinically infected; (16) 
'prophylaxis' means the administration of a medicinal product to an animal or group of animals before clinical signs of a disease, in order to prevent the occurrence of disease or infection; (17) 
'clinical trial' means a study which aims to examine under field conditions the safety or efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product under normal conditions of animal husbandry or as part of normal veterinary practice for the purpose of obtaining a marketing authorisation or a change thereof; (18) 
'pre-clinical study' means a study not covered by the definition of clinical trial which aims to investigate the safety or efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product for the purpose of obtaining a marketing authorisation or a change thereof; (19) 
'benefit-risk balance' means an evaluation of the positive effects of the veterinary medicinal product in relation to the following risks relating to the use of that product: (a) 
any risk relating to the quality, safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal products as regards animal or human health; (b) 
any risk of undesirable effects on the environment; (c) 
any risk relating to the development of resistance; (20) 
'common name' means the international non-proprietary name recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) for a substance or, if one does not exist, the name generally used; (21) 
'name of the veterinary medicinal product' means either an invented name not liable to confusion with the common name, or a common or scientific name accompanied by a trademark or the name of the marketing authorisation holder; (22) 
'strength' means the content of active substances in a veterinary medicinal product, expressed quantitatively per dosage unit, per unit of volume or per unit of weight according to the pharmaceutical form; (23) 
'competent authority' means an authority designated by a Member State in accordance with Article 137; (24) 
'labelling' means information on the immediate packaging or the outer packaging; (25) 
'immediate packaging' means the container or any other form of packaging that is in direct contact with the veterinary medicinal product; (26) 
'outer packaging' means packaging in which the immediate packaging is placed; (27) 
'package leaflet' means a documentation leaflet on a veterinary medicinal product which contains information to ensure its safe and efficacious use; (28) 
'letter of access' means an original document, signed by the data owner or its representative, which states that the data may be used for the benefit of the applicant in relation to the competent authorities, the European Medicines Agency established by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ('the Agency') or the Commission for the purposes of this Regulation; (29) 
'limited market' means a market for one of the following medicinal product types: (a) 
veterinary medicinal products for the treatment or prevention of diseases that occur infrequently or in limited geographical areas; (b) 
veterinary medicinal products for animal species other than cattle, sheep for meat production, pigs, chickens, dogs and cats; (30) 
'pharmacovigilance' means the science and activities relating to the detection, assessment, understanding and prevention of suspected adverse events or any other problem related to a medicinal product; (31) 
'pharmacovigilance system master file' means a detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system used by the marketing authorisation holder with respect to one or more authorised veterinary medicinal products; (32) 
'control' means any task performed by a competent authority for the verification of compliance with this Regulation; (33) 
'veterinary prescription' means a document issued by a veterinarian for a veterinary medicinal product or a medicinal product for human use for its use in animals;
Article 1 - Subject matter
This Regulation lays down rules for the placing on the market, manufacturing, import, export, supply, distribution, pharmacovigilance, control and use of veterinary medicinal products.
Article 160 - Entry into force and application
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

It shall apply from 28 January 2022.
Article 157 - Commission report on traditional herbal products used to treat animals
The Commission shall report to the European Parliament and to the Council by 29 January 2027, on traditional herbal products used to treat animals in the Union.

If appropriate, the Commission shall make a legislative proposal in order to introduce a simplified system for registering traditional herbal products used to treat animals. The Member States shall provide information to the Commission on such traditional herbal products within their territories.
Article 156 - Review of rules for environmental risk assessment
By 28 January 2022, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on a feasibility study of an active substance based review system ('monographs') and other potential alternatives for the environmental risk assessment of veterinary medicinal products, to be accompanied, if appropriate, by a legislative proposal.
Article 155 - Initial input to the product database by competent authorities
At the latest by 28 January 2022, the competent authorities shall submit, electronically, information on all veterinary medicinal products authorised in their Member State at that time to the Agency, using the format referred to in point (a) of Article 55(3).
Article 154 - Establishment of the pharmacovigilance database and of the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database
Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the Agency, in collaboration with the Member States and the Commission, shall, in accordance with Articles 74 and 91 respectively, ensure the establishment of the pharmacovigilance database and of the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database at the latest by 28 January 2022.
Article 153 - Transitional provisions regarding delegated and implementing acts
1.

The delegated acts referred to in Article 118(2) and the implementing acts referred to in Articles 37(5), 57(4), 77(6), 95(8), 99(6) and 104(7) shall be adopted before 28 January 2022. Such delegated and implementing acts shall apply from 28 January 2022. 2. 
 Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the Commission shall adopt the delegated acts referred to in Article 37(4) at the latest by 27 September 2021. Such delegated acts shall apply from 28 January 2022. 3. 
 Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the Commission shall adopt the delegated acts referred to in Articles 57(3) and 146(2) and the implementing acts referred to in Articles 55(3) and 60(1) at the latest by 27 January 2021. Such delegated and implementing acts shall apply from 28 January 2022. 4. 
 Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the Commission shall adopt the delegated acts referred to in Article 109(1) and the implementing acts referred to in Articles 17(2) and (3), 93(2), 109(2) and 115(5) at the latest by 29 January 2025. Such delegated and implementing acts shall apply at the earliest on 28 January 2022. 5. 
 Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the Commission is empowered to adopt delegated and implementing acts provided for in this Regulation as from 27 January 2019. Such delegated and implementing acts, unless otherwise provided in this Regulation, shall apply from 28 January 2022. When adopting the delegated and implementing acts referred to in this Article, the Commission shall allow sufficient time between their adoption and their start of application.
Article 152 - Existing veterinary medicinal products, marketing authorisations and registrations
1. 
 Marketing authorisations of veterinary medicinal products and registrations of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products granted in accordance with Directive 2001/82/EC or Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 before 28 January 2022 shall be deemed to have been issued in accordance with this Regulation, and are, as such, subject to the relevant provisions of this Regulation.

The first subparagraph of this paragraph shall not apply to marketing authorisations for antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products containing antimicrobials which have been reserved for treatment in humans in accordance with implementing acts referred to in Article 37(5). 2. 
 Veterinary medicinal products placed on the market in accordance with Directive 2001/82/EC or Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 may continue to be made available until 29 January 2027, even if they are not in compliance with this Regulation. 3. 
 By way of derogation from paragraph 1 of this Article, the periods of protection referred to in Article 39 shall not apply to reference veterinary medicinal products for which an authorisation has been granted before 28 January 2022 and, instead, the corresponding provisions in the repealed acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall continue to apply in that respect.
Article 137 - Competent authorities
1.

Member States shall designate the competent authorities to carry out tasks under this Regulation. 2. 
 Member States shall ensure that adequate financial resources are available to provide the staff and other resources necessary for the competent authorities to carry out the activities required by this Regulation. 3. 
 The competent authorities shall cooperate with each other in the performance of their tasks under this Regulation and shall give the competent authorities of other Member States necessary and useful support to this end. Competent authorities shall communicate the appropriate information to each other. 4. 
 On reasoned request, the competent authorities shall forthwith communicate the written records referred to in Article 123 and control reports referred to in Article 127 to the competent authorities of other Member States.
Article 96 - Record keeping
1.

The holder of a manufacturing authorisation shall record the following information in respect of all veterinary medicinal products that it supplies: (a) 
date of the transaction; (b) 
name of the veterinary medicinal product, and marketing authorisation number if applicable, as well as pharmaceutical form and strength, as appropriate; (c) 
quantity supplied; (d) 
name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business of the recipient; (e) 
batch number; (f) 
date of expiry. 2. 
 The records referred to in paragraph 1 shall be available for inspection by competent authorities for one year after the date of expiry of the batch or at least five years from recording, whichever is longer.
Article 93 - Obligations of the holder of a manufacturing authorisation
1. 
 The holder of a manufacturing authorisation shall:

(a) 
have at its disposal suitable and sufficient premises, technical equipment and testing facilities, for the activities stated in its manufacturing authorisation; (b) 
have at its disposal the services of at least one qualified person referred to in Article 97 and ensure that the qualified person operates in compliance with that Article; (c) 
enable the qualified person referred to in Article 97 to carry out his or her duties, particularly by providing access to all the necessary documents and premises, and by placing at his or her disposal all the necessary technical equipment and testing facilities; (d) 
give at least a 30 days prior notice to the competent authority before the replacement of the qualified person referred to in Article 97 or, if prior notice is not possible because the replacement is unexpected, inform the competent authority immediately; (e) 
have at its disposal the services of staff complying with the legal requirements existing in the relevant Member State as regards both manufacture and controls; (f) 
allow the representatives of the competent authority access to the premises at any time; (g) 
keep detailed records of all veterinary medicinal products which the holder of a manufacturing authorisation supplies in accordance with Article 96, and keep samples of each batch; (h) 
only supply veterinary medicinal products to wholesale distributors of veterinary medicinal products; (i) 
inform the competent authority and the marketing authorisation holder immediately if the holder of a manufacturing authorisation obtains information that veterinary medicinal products which fall within the scope of its manufacturing authorisation are, or are suspected of being, falsified irrespective of whether those veterinary medicinal products were distributed within the legal supply chain or by illegal means, including illegal sale by means of information society services; (j) 
comply with good manufacturing practice for veterinary medicinal products and use as starting materials only active substances which have been manufactured in accordance with good manufacturing practice for active substances and distributed in accordance with good distribution practice for active substances; (k) 
verify that each manufacturer, distributor and importer within the Union from whom the holder of a manufacturing authorisation obtains active substances is registered with the competent authority of the Member State in which the manufacturer, distributor and importer are established, in accordance with Article 95; (l) 
perform audits based on a risk assessment on the manufacturers, distributors and importers from whom the holder of a manufacturing authorisation obtains active substances. 2. 
 The Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt measures on good manufacturing practice for veterinary medicinal products and active substances used as starting materials, referred to in point (j) of paragraph 1 of this Article. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 145(2).
Article 92 - Changes to manufacturing authorisations on request
1.

If the holder of a manufacturing authorisation requests a change in that manufacturing authorisation, the procedure for examining such a request shall not exceed 30 days from the day on which the competent authority receives the request. In justified cases, including when an inspection is necessary, that period of time may be extended by the competent authority to 90 days. 2. 
 The request referred to in paragraph 1 shall contain a description of the requested change. 3. 
 Within the period referred to in paragraph 1, the competent authority may require the holder of the manufacturing authorisation to provide supplementary information within a set time limit and may decide to perform an inspection. The procedure shall be suspended until such time as the supplementary information has been provided. 4. 
 The competent authority shall assess the request referred to in paragraph 1, inform the holder of the manufacturing authorisation of the outcome of the assessment and, where appropriate, amend the manufacturing authorisation, and update, where appropriate, the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database.
Article 91 - Database on manufacturing and wholesale distribution
1. 
 The Agency shall establish and maintain a Union database on manufacturing, import and wholesale distribution ('manufacturing and wholesale distribution database').

2. 
 The manufacturing and wholesale distribution database shall include information regarding the grant, suspension or revocation by competent authorities of any manufacturing authorisations, wholesale distribution authorisations, certificates of good manufacturing practice, and registrations of manufacturers, importers and distributors of active substances. 3. 
 Competent authorities shall record in the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database information on manufacturing and wholesale distribution authorisations and certificates granted in accordance with Articles 90, 94 and 100 together with information on importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances registered in accordance with Article 95. 4. 
 The Agency shall, in collaboration with Member States and the Commission, draw up functional specifications, including the format for electronic submissions of data, for the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database. 5. 
 The Agency shall ensure that information reported to the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database is collated and made accessible and that the information is shared. 6. 
 The competent authorities shall have full access to the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database. 7. 
 The general public shall have access to information in the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database, without the possibility to change that information therein.
Article 90 - Procedure for granting of manufacturing authorisations
1.

Before granting a manufacturing authorisation, the competent authority shall carry out an inspection of the manufacturing site. 2. 
 The competent authority may require the applicant to submit further information in addition to that supplied in the application pursuant to Article 89. Where the competent authority exercises that right, the time limit referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall be suspended or revoked until the applicant has submitted the additional data required. 3. 
 A manufacturing authorisation shall apply only to the manufacturing site and the pharmaceutical forms specified in the application referred to in Article 89. 4. 
 Member States shall lay down procedures for granting or refusing manufacturing authorisations. Such procedures shall not exceed 90 days from receipt by the competent authority of an application for manufacturing authorisation. 5. 
 A manufacturing authorisation may be granted conditionally, subject to a requirement for the applicant to undertake actions or introduce specific procedures within a given time period. Where a manufacturing authorisation has been conditionally granted, it shall be suspended or revoked if the requirements are not complied with.
Article 89 - Application for manufacturing authorisation
1.

An application for a manufacturing authorisation shall be submitted to a competent authority in the Member State in which the manufacturing site is located. 2. 
 An application for a manufacturing authorisation shall contain at least the following information: (a) 
veterinary medicinal products which are to be manufactured or imported; (b) 
name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business of the applicant; (c) 
pharmaceutical forms which are to be manufactured or imported; (d) 
details about the manufacturing site where the veterinary medicinal products are to be manufactured or imported; (e) 
a statement to the effect that the applicant fulfils the requirements laid down in Articles 93 and 97.
Article 127 - Proof of the product quality for veterinary medicinal products
1.

The marketing authorisation holder shall have at its disposal the results of the control tests carried out on the veterinary medicinal product or on the constituents and intermediate products of the manufacturing process, in accordance with the methods laid down in the marketing authorisation. 2. 
 If a competent authority concludes that a batch of a veterinary medicinal product is not in conformity with the control report of the manufacturer or the specifications provided for in the marketing authorisation, it shall take measures in relation to the marketing authorisation holder and the manufacturer, and shall inform accordingly the competent authorities of other Member States in which the veterinary medicinal product is authorised, and also the Agency in case the veterinary medicinal product is authorised under the centralised procedure.
Article 124 - Audits by the Commission
The Commission may carry out audits in Member States on their competent authorities for the purpose of confirming the appropriateness of the controls carried out by those competent authorities.

Such audits shall be coordinated with the relevant Member State and shall be carried out in a manner which avoids unnecessary administrative burden. After each audit, the Commission shall draft a report containing, where appropriate, recommendations to the relevant Member State. The Commission shall send the draft report to the competent authority for comments and shall take into account any such comments in drawing up the final report. The final report and the comments shall be made public by the Commission.
Article 135 - Penalties imposed by Member States
1. 
 Member States shall lay down rules on penalties applicable to infringements of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.

The penalties provided for shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Member States shall, by 28 January 2022, notify the Commission of those rules and of those measures and shall notify it, without delay, of any subsequent amendments affecting them. 2. 
 The competent authorities shall ensure the publication of information on the type and number of cases where financial penalties were imposed, having regard to the legitimate interest of the concerned parties for the protection of their business secrets. 3. 
 Member States shall inform the Commission immediately of any litigation against the holders of marketing authorisations for centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products brought for infringement of this Regulation.
Article 132 - Removal of importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substance from the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database
In the event of non-compliance by importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances with the requirements laid down in Article 95, the competent authority shall, temporarily or definitively, remove those importers, manufacturers and distributors from the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database.
Article 129 - Temporary safety restrictions
1. 
 The competent authority and, in the case of centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products, also the Commission may, in the event of a risk to public or animal health or to the environment that requires urgent action, impose temporary safety restrictions on the marketing authorisation holder and other persons having obligations under this Regulation.

Those temporary safety restrictions may include: (a) 
restriction of supply of the veterinary medicinal product at the request of the competent authority and, in the case of centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products, also at the request of the Commission to the competent authority; (b) 
restriction of the use of the veterinary medicinal product at the request of the competent authority and, in the case of centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products, also at the request of the Commission to the competent authority; (c) 
suspension of a marketing authorisation by the competent authority having granted that marketing authorisation and, in the case of centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products, by the Commission. 2. 
 The competent authority concerned shall inform, at the latest on the following working day, the other competent authorities and the Commission of any temporary safety restriction imposed. In the case of centralised marketing authorisations, the Commission shall inform, within the same time, the competent authorities of any temporary safety restriction imposed. 3. 
 Competent authorities and the Commission may, at the same time as imposing a restriction in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, refer the issue to the Agency in accordance with Article 82. 4. 
 Where applicable, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit an application for a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation in accordance with Article 62.
Article 87 - Application and procedure for registration of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products
1.

The following documents shall be included in the application for a registration of a homeopathic veterinary medicinal product: (a) 
scientific name or other name given in a pharmacopoeia of the homeopathic stock or stocks, together with a statement of the route of administration, pharmaceutical form and degree of dilution to be registered; (b) 
a dossier describing how the homeopathic stock or stocks are obtained and controlled, and justifying their homeopathic use, on the basis of an adequate bibliography; in the case of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products containing biological substances, a description of the measures taken to ensure the absence of pathogens; (c) 
the manufacturing and control file for each pharmaceutical form and a description of the method of dilution and potentisation; (d) 
the manufacturing authorisation for the homeopathic veterinary medicinal products concerned; (e) 
copies of any registrations obtained for the same homeopathic veterinary medicinal products in other Member States; (f) 
the text to appear on the package leaflet, outer packaging and immediate packaging of the homeopathic veterinary medicinal products to be registered; (g) 
data concerning the stability of the homeopathic veterinary medicinal product; (h) 
in the case of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products intended for food-producing animal species, the active substances shall be those pharmacologically active substances allowed in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 470/2009 and any acts adopted on the basis thereof. 2. 
 An application for registration may cover a series of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products of the same pharmaceutical form and derived from the same homeopathic stock or stocks. 3. 
 The competent authority may determine the conditions under which the registered homeopathic veterinary medicinal product may be made available. 4. 
 The procedure of registration of a homeopathic veterinary medicinal product shall be completed within 90 days of the submission of a valid application. 5. 
 A registration holder of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products shall have the same obligations as a marketing authorisation holder, subject to Article 2(5). 6. 
 A registration for a homeopathic veterinary medicinal product shall only be granted to an applicant established in the Union. The requirement to be established in the Union shall also apply to registration holders.
Article 86 - Registration of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products
1. 
 A homeopathic veterinary medicinal product that meets all of the following conditions shall be subject to a registration procedure:

(a) 
it is administered by a route described in the European Pharmacopoeia or, in the absence thereof, by the pharmacopoeias used officially in Member States; (b) 
it has a sufficient degree of dilution to guarantee its safety, and shall not contain more than one part per 10 000 of the mother tincture; (c) 
it has no therapeutic indication appearing on its labelling or in any information relating thereto. 2. 
 Member States may lay down procedures for the registration of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products in addition to those laid down in this Chapter.
Article 85 - Homeopathic veterinary medicinal products
1.

Homeopathic veterinary medicinal products that meet the conditions set out in Article 86 shall be registered in accordance with Article 87. 2. 
 Homeopathic veterinary medicinal products that do not meet the conditions set out in Article 86 shall be subject to Article 5.
Introduction
REGULATION (EU) 2019/6 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL
 of 11 December 2018
 on veterinary medicinal products and repealing Directive 2001/82/EC
(Text with EEA relevance)
(OJ L 004 7.1.2019, p. 43)Amended by:

Official Journal
 No
page
date
 ►M1
 COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2021/805 of 8 March 2021
 L 180
3
21.5.2021
 ►M2
 COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) 2023/183 of 23 November 2022
 L 26
7
30.1.2023
Article 158 - Review of measures regarding animals of the equine species
No later than 29 January 2025, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on its assessment of the situation as regards the treatment with medicinal products of animals of the equine species and their exclusion from the food chain, including with regard to imports of animals of the equine species from third countries, to be accompanied by any appropriate action by the Commission taking into account, in particular, public health, animal welfare, the risks of fraud and the level playing field with third countries.
Article 150 - Relation with other Union acts
1.

Nothing in this Regulation shall be understood to affect the provisions of Directive 96/22/EC. 2. 
 Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008 (
12
) shall not apply to veterinary medicinal products covered by this Regulation. 3. 
 Commission Regulation (EC) No 658/2007 (
13
) shall not apply to veterinary medicinal products covered by this Regulation.
Article 138 - Scientific opinion for international organisations for animal health
1. 
 The Agency may give scientific opinions, in the context of cooperation with international organisations for animal health, for the evaluation of veterinary medicinal products intended exclusively for markets outside the Union.

For that purpose, an application shall be submitted to the Agency in accordance with Article 8. The Agency may, after consulting the relevant organisation, draw up a scientific opinion. 2. 
 The Agency shall establish specific procedural rules for the implementation of paragraph 1.
Article 97 - Qualified person responsible for manufacturing and batch release
1. 
 The holder of a manufacturing authorisation shall have permanently at its disposal the services of at least one qualified person who fulfils the conditions laid down in this Article and is responsible, in particular, for carrying out the duties specified in this Article.

2. 
 The qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 shall hold a university degree in one or more of the following scientific disciplines: pharmacy, human medicine, veterinary medicine, chemistry, pharmaceutical chemistry and technology, or biology. 3. 
 The qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 shall have acquired practical experience over at least two years, in one or more undertakings which are authorised manufacturers, in the activities of quality assurance of medicinal products, of qualitative analysis of medicinal products, of quantitative analysis of active substances and the checking necessary to ensure the quality of veterinary medicinal products. The duration of practical experience required in the first subparagraph may be reduced by one year where a university course lasts for at least five years and by a year and a half where the university course lasts for at least six years. 4. 
 The holder of the manufacturing authorisation, if a natural person, may assume the responsibility referred to in paragraph 1, if he or she personally fulfils the conditions referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3. 
 5. 
 The competent authority may lay down appropriate administrative procedures to verify that a qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 fulfils the conditions referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3. 
 6. 
 The qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 shall ensure that each batch of the veterinary medicinal products is manufactured in compliance with good manufacturing practice, and tested in compliance with the terms of the marketing authorisation. That qualified person shall draw up a control report to that effect. Such control reports shall be valid throughout the Union. 7. 
 Where veterinary medicinal products are imported, the qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 shall ensure that each imported production batch has undergone in the Union a full qualitative and a quantitative analysis of at least all the active substances, and all the other tests necessary to ensure the quality of the veterinary medicinal products in accordance with the requirements of the marketing authorisation and that the batch manufactured is in compliance with good manufacturing practice. 8. 
 The qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 shall keep records in respect of each released production batch. Those records shall be kept up to date as operations are carried out and shall remain at the disposal of the competent authority for one year after the date of expiry of the batch or at least five years from recording, whichever is longer. 9. 
 Where veterinary medicinal products manufactured in the Union are exported and subsequently imported back into the Union from a third country, paragraph 6 shall apply. 10. Where veterinary medicinal products are imported from third countries with which the Union has made arrangements regarding application of standards of good manufacturing practice at least equivalent to those laid down in accordance with Article 93(2) and it is demonstrated that the tests referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article have been carried out in the exporting country, the qualified person may draw up the control report referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article without the necessary tests referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article being carried out, unless the competent authority of the Member State of importation decides otherwise.
Article 94 - Certificates of good manufacturing practice
1.

Within 90 days of an inspection, the competent authority shall issue a certificate of good manufacturing practice of the manufacturer for the manufacturing site concerned if the inspection establishes that the manufacturer in question is in compliance with the requirements laid down in this Regulation and with the implementing act referred to in Article 93(2). 2. 
 If the outcome of the inspection referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is that the manufacturer does not comply with good manufacturing practice, such information shall be entered into the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database referred to in Article 91. 3. 
 The conclusions reached following an inspection of a manufacturer shall be valid throughout the Union. 4. 
 A competent authority, the Commission or the Agency may require a manufacturer established in a third country to undergo an inspection as referred to in paragraph 1, without prejudice to any arrangements which may have been concluded between the Union and a third country. 5. 
 Importers of veterinary medicinal products shall ensure, before those products are supplied to the Union, that the manufacturer established in a third country is in possession of a certificate of good manufacturing practice issued by a competent authority or, where the third country is party to an arrangement concluded between the Union and the third country, there is an equivalent confirmation.
Article 128 - Proof of the product quality specific for immunological veterinary medicinal products
1.

For the purposes of application of Article 127(1), competent authorities may require the holder of a marketing authorisation for immunological veterinary medicinal products to submit to the competent authorities the copies of all the control reports signed by the qualified person in accordance with Article 97. 2. 
 The holder of a marketing authorisation for immunological veterinary medicinal products shall ensure that an adequate number of representative samples of each batch of veterinary medical products is held in stock at least up to the expiry date, and provide samples promptly to the competent authorities on request. 3. 
 Where necessary for reasons of human or animal health, a competent authority may require the holder of a marketing authorisation for an immunological veterinary medicinal product to submit samples of batches of the bulk product or of the immunological veterinary medicinal product for control by an Official Medicines Control Laboratory before the product is placed on the market. 4. 
 On the request of a competent authority, the marketing authorisation holder shall promptly supply the samples referred to in paragraph 2, together with the control reports referred to in paragraph 1, for control testing. The competent authority shall inform the competent authorities in other Member States in which the immunological veterinary medicinal product is authorised, as well as the EDQM and the Agency in case the immunological veterinary medicinal product is authorised under the centralised procedure, of its intention to control batches of the immunological veterinary medicinal product. 5. 
 On the basis of the control reports referred to in this Chapter, the laboratory responsible for the control shall repeat, on the samples provided, all the tests carried out by the manufacturer on the finished immunological veterinary medicinal product, in accordance with the relevant specifications in its dossier for marketing authorisation. 6. 
 The list of tests to be repeated by the laboratory responsible for the control shall be restricted to justified tests, provided that all competent authorities in the relevant Member States, and, if appropriate, the EDQM, agree to such a restriction. For immunological veterinary medicinal products authorised under the centralised procedure, the list of tests to be repeated by the control laboratory may be reduced only upon agreement of the Agency. 7. 
 The competent authorities shall recognise the results of the tests referred to in paragraph 5. 
 8. 
 Unless the Commission is informed that a longer period is necessary to conduct the tests, the competent authorities shall ensure that the control is completed within 60 days of receipt of the samples and control reports. 9. 
 The competent authority shall notify the competent authorities of other relevant Member States, the EDQM, the marketing authorisation holder and, if appropriate, the manufacturer, of the results of the tests within the same period of time. 10. The competent authority shall verify that the manufacturing processes used in the manufacture of immunological veterinary medicinal products are validated and that batch-to-batch consistency is ensured.
INFORMATION REFERRED TO IN POINT (A) OF ARTICLE 8(1)
ANNEX I
INFORMATION REFERRED TO IN POINT (A) OF ARTICLE 8(1)
 1. Legal basis for the application for the marketing authorisation
 2. Applicant
2.1. Name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business of the applicant
2.2. Name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business of manufacturer(s) or importer(s) of the finished veterinary medicinal product and name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business of the manufacturer of the active substance(s) 
2.3. Name and address of the sites involved in the different stages of the manufacturing, importing, control and batch release
 3. Identification of the veterinary medicinal product
3.1. Name of the veterinary medicinal product and Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Veterinary code (ATCvet Code)
3.2. Active substance(s) and, if applicable, diluent(s) 
3.3. Strength or, in case of immunological veterinary medicinal product, biological activity, potency or titre
3.4. Pharmaceutical form
3.5. Route of administration
3.6. Target species
 4. Manufacturing and pharmacovigilance information
4.1. Proof of a manufacturing authorisation or certificate of good manufacturing practice
4.2. Reference number of pharmacovigilance system master file
 5. Veterinary medicinal product information
5.1. Proposed summary of the product characteristics drawn up in accordance with Article 35
5.2. Description of the final presentation of the veterinary medicinal product, including packaging and labelling
5.3. Proposed text of the information to be provided on the immediate packaging, outer packaging and the package leaflet in accordance with Articles 10 to 16
 6. Other information
6.1. List of countries in which a marketing authorisation has been granted or revoked for the veterinary medicinal product
6.2. Copies of all the summaries of product characteristics as included in the terms of marketing authorisations granted by Member States
6.3. List of countries in which an application has been submitted or refused
6.4. List of Member States in which the veterinary medicinal product is to be placed on the market
6.5. Critical expert reports on quality, safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product.
Article 146 - Amendments to Annex II
1.

The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 147(2) in order to amend Annex II by adapting the requirements regarding the technical documentation on the quality, safety and efficacy of veterinary medicinal products to technical and scientific progress. 2. 
 The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 147(3) amending Annex II in order to achieve a sufficient level of detail that ensures legal certainty and harmonisation as well as any necessary updating, while avoiding unnecessary disruption with Annex II, including as regards the introduction of specific requirements for novel therapy veterinary medicinal products. When adopting those delegated acts, the Commission shall have due regard to animal and public health and environmental considerations.
Article 2 - Scope
1. 
 This Regulation shall apply to veterinary medicinal products prepared industrially or by a method involving an industrial process and intended to be placed on the market.

2. 
 In addition to the products referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, Articles 94 and 95 shall also apply to active substances used as starting materials in veterinary medicinal products. 3. 
 In addition to the products referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, Articles 94, 105, 108, 117, 120, 123 and 134 shall also apply to inactivated immunological veterinary medicinal products which are manufactured from pathogens and antigens obtained from an animal or animals in an epidemiological unit and used for the treatment of that animal or those animals in the same epidemiological unit or for the treatment of an animal or animals in a unit having a confirmed epidemiological link. 4. 
 By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, only Articles 55, 56, 94, 117, 119, 123, 134 and Section 5 of Chapter IV shall apply to veterinary medicinal products authorised in accordance with Article 5(6). 5. 
 By way of derogation from paragraph 1 of this Article, Articles 5 to 15, 17 to 33, 35 to 54, 57 to 72, 82 to 84, 95, 98, 106, 107, 110, 112 to 116, 128, 130 and 136 shall not apply to homeopathic veterinary medicinal products which are registered in accordance with Article 86. 6. 
 In addition to the products referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, Chapter VII shall also apply to: (a) 
substances that have anabolic, anti-infectious, antiparasitic, anti-inflammatory, hormonal, narcotic or psychotropic properties and that may be used in animals; (b) 
veterinary medicinal products prepared in a pharmacy or by a person permitted to do so under national law, in accordance with a veterinary prescription for an individual animal or a small group of animals ('magistral formula'); (c) 
veterinary medicinal products prepared in a pharmacy in accordance with the directions of a pharmacopoeia and intended to be supplied directly to the end-user ('officinal formula'). Such officinal formula shall be subject to a veterinary prescription when intended for food-producing animals. 7. 
 This Regulation shall not apply to: (a) 
veterinary medicinal products containing autologous or allogeneic cells or tissues that have not been subjected to an industrial process; (b) 
veterinary medicinal products based on radio-active isotopes; (c) 
feed additives as defined in point (a) of Article 2(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
1
);
(d) 
veterinary medicinal products intended for research and development; (e) 
medicated feed and intermediate products as defined in points (a) and (b) of Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) 2019/4. 8. 
 This Regulation shall, except as regards the centralised marketing authorisation procedure, be without prejudice to national provisions on fees. 9. 
 Nothing in this Regulation shall prevent a Member State from maintaining or introducing on its territory any national control measure it deems appropriate regarding narcotic and psychotropic substances.
Article 149 - Repeal
Directive 2001/82/EC is repealed.

References to the repealed Directive shall be construed as references to this Regulation and shall be read in accordance with the correlation table set out in Annex IV.
Article 150 - Relation with other Union acts
1. Nothing in this Regulation shall be understood to affect the provisions of Directive 96/22/EC.

2. Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008 (30) shall not apply to veterinary medicinal products covered by this Regulation. 3. Commission Regulation (EC) No 658/2007 (31) shall not apply to veterinary medicinal products covered by this Regulation.
Article 151 - Prior applications
1.

The procedures concerning the applications for marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products or for variations that have been validated in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 before 28 January 2022 shall be completed in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 2. The procedures concerning the applications for marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products that have been validated in accordance with Directive 2001/82/EC before 28 January 2022 shall be completed in accordance with that Directive. 3. Procedures initiated on the basis of Articles 33, 34, 35, 39, 40 and 78 of Directive 2001/82/EC before 28 January 2022 shall be completed in accordance with that Directive.
Article 152 - Existing veterinary medicinal products, marketing authorisations and registrations
1. Marketing authorisations of veterinary medicinal products and registrations of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products granted in accordance with Directive 2001/82/EC or Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 before 28 January 2022 shall be deemed to have been issued in accordance with this Regulation, and are, as such, subject to the relevant provisions of this Regulation.

The first subparagraph of this paragraph shall not apply to marketing authorisations for antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products containing antimicrobials which have been reserved for treatment in humans in accordance with implementing acts referred to in Article 37(5). 2. Veterinary medicinal products placed on the market in accordance with Directive 2001/82/EC or Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 may continue to be made available until 29 January 2027, even if they are not in compliance with this Regulation. 3. By way of derogation from paragraph 1 of this Article, the periods of protection referred to in Article 39 shall not apply to reference veterinary medicinal products for which an authorisation has been granted before 28 January 2022 and, instead, the corresponding provisions in the repealed acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall continue to apply in that respect.
Introduction
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Articles 114 and 168(4)(b) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission,
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee (1),
After consulting the Committee of the Regions,
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure (2),
Whereas:

(1) Directive 2001/82/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (3) and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (4) constituted the Union regulatory framework for the placing on the market, manufacturing, import, export, supply, distribution, pharmacovigilance, control and the use of veterinary medicinal products. (2) In the light of experience and following the assessment by the Commission on the functioning of the internal market for veterinary medicinal products, the regulatory framework for veterinary medicinal products should be adapted to scientific progress, the current market conditions and economic reality, while continuing to ensure a high level of protection of animal health, animal welfare and environment and safeguarding public health. (3) The regulatory framework for veterinary medicinal products should take into account the needs of the businesses in the veterinary pharmaceutical sector and trade in veterinary medicinal products within the Union. It should also integrate the major policy objectives set out in the Communication from the Commission of 3 March 2010 entitled 'Europe 2020 A Strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'. (4) Experience has shown that the needs of the veterinary sector differ substantially from those of the human sector in relation to medicinal products. In particular, the drivers for investment in markets for medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products are different. For example, in the veterinary sector there are many different animal species, which creates both a fragmented market and the need for major investments in order to extend the authorisation of veterinary medicinal products existing for one animal species to another. Moreover, the price-setting mechanisms in the veterinary sector follow a completely different logic. Consequently, prices for veterinary medicinal products are typically substantially lower than for medicinal products for human use. The size of the animal pharmaceutical industry is only a small fraction of the size of the pharmaceutical industry for medicinal products for human use. It is therefore appropriate to develop a regulatory framework addressing the characteristics and specificities of the veterinary sector, which cannot be considered as a model for the market for medicinal products for human use. (5) This Regulation aims to reduce the administrative burden, enhance the internal market and increase the availability of veterinary medicinal products, while guaranteeing the highest level of public and animal health and environmental protection. (6) The identification of packs of veterinary medicinal products via identification codes is common practice in several Member States. Those Member States have developed integrated electronic systems at national level for the proper functioning of such codes, linked to national databases. The introduction of a harmonised Union-wide system has not been the subject of any assessment as to costs and administrative consequences. Instead, there should be a possibility for Member States to decide at national level on whether or not to adopt a system for identification codes to be added to the information on the outer packaging of the veterinary medicinal products. (7) However, the existing systems for identification codes currently used at national level vary and there is no standard format. The possibility should be provided for the development of a harmonised identification code for which the Commission should adopt uniform rules. The adoption by the Commission of rules concerning such an identification code would not prevent Member States from being able to choose whether or not to use such an identification code. (8) In spite of the measures that farmers and other operators are obliged to take on the basis of rules adopted at Union level regarding health of kept animals, good animal husbandry, good hygiene, feed, management and biosecurity, animals can suffer from a broad range of diseases which need to be prevented or treated by veterinary medicinal products for both animal health and welfare reasons. The impact of animal diseases and the measures necessary to control them can be devastating for individual animals, animal populations, animal keepers and the economy. Animal diseases transmissible to humans can also have a significant impact on public health. Therefore sufficient and effective veterinary medicinal products should be available in the Union in order to ensure high standards of public and animal health, and for the development of the agriculture and aquaculture sectors. (9) This Regulation should set high standards of quality, safety and efficacy for veterinary medicinal products in order to meet common concerns as regards the protection of public and animal health and of the environment. At the same time, this Regulation should harmonise the rules for the authorisation of veterinary medicinal products and the placing of them on the Union market. (10) This Regulation should not apply to veterinary medicinal products which have not undergone an industrial process such as, for example, non-processed blood. (11) Antiparasitics include also substances with repelling activity that are presented for use as veterinary medicinal products. (12) There is insufficient information to date on traditional herbal products used to treat animals in order to allow the setting up of a simplified system. Therefore, the possibility of introducing such a simplified system should be examined by the Commission based on the information provided by the Member States on the use of such products on their territory. (13) This Regulation applies to veterinary medicinal products, including those products which Directive 2001/82/EC referred to as 'pre-mixes' and which in this Regulation are considered to be a pharmaceutical form of a veterinary medicinal product, until such time as those products are included in medicated feed or intermediate products, after which Regulation (EU) 2019/4 of the European Parliament and of the Council (5) applies to the exclusion of this Regulation. (14) To ensure the proper administration and appropriate dosing of certain veterinary medicinal products which are to be administered orally in feed or drinking water to animals, especially in the case of treatment of groups of animals, such administration should be properly described in the product information. Additional instructions for cleaning the equipment used for administration of those products should be set out to avoid cross-contamination and reduce antimicrobial resistance. In order to improve the effective and safe use of veterinary medicinal products authorised and prescribed for oral administration via routes other than medicated feed, such as mixing of water for drinking with a veterinary medicinal product or manual mixing of a veterinary medicinal product into feed and administered by the animal keeper to food-producing animals, the Commission should, where necessary, adopt delegated acts. The Commission should take into account scientific recommendations of the European Medicines Agency, established by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ('the Agency'), for example concerning measures to minimise over-dosage or under-dosage, unintended administration to non-target animals, the risk of cross-contamination and dissemination of those products in the environment.
Article 153 - Transitional provisions regarding delegated and implementing acts
1.

The delegated acts referred to in Article 118(2) and the implementing acts referred to in Articles 37(5), 57(4), 77(6), 95(8), 99(6) and 104(7) shall be adopted before 28 January 2022. Such delegated and implementing acts shall apply from 28 January 2022. 2. Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the Commission shall adopt the delegated acts referred to in Article 37(4) at the latest by 27 September 2021. Such delegated acts shall apply from 28 January 2022. 3. Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the Commission shall adopt the delegated acts referred to in Articles 57(3) and 146(2) and the implementing acts referred to in Articles 55(3) and 60(1) at the latest by 27 January 2021. Such delegated and implementing acts shall apply from 28 January 2022. 4. Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the Commission shall adopt the delegated acts referred to in Article 109(1) and the implementing acts referred to in Articles 17(2) and (3), 93(2), 109(2) and 115(5) at the latest by 29 January 2025. Such delegated and implementing acts shall apply at the earliest on 28 January 2022. 5. Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the Commission is empowered to adopt delegated and implementing acts provided for in this Regulation as from 27 January 2019. Such delegated and implementing acts, unless otherwise provided in this Regulation, shall apply from 28 January 2022. When adopting the delegated and implementing acts referred to in this Article, the Commission shall allow sufficient time between their adoption and their start of application.
Article 154 - Establishment of the pharmacovigilance database and of the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database
Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the Agency, in collaboration with the Member States and the Commission, shall, in accordance with Articles 74 and 91 respectively, ensure the establishment of the pharmacovigilance database and of the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database at the latest by 28 January 2022.
Article 155 - Initial input to the product database by competent authorities
At the latest by 28 January 2022, the competent authorities shall submit, electronically, information on all veterinary medicinal products authorised in their Member State at that time to the Agency, using the format referred to in point (a) of Article 55(3).
Article 156 - Review of rules for environmental risk assessment
By 28 January 2022, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on a feasibility study of an active substance based review system ('monographs') and other potential alternatives for the environmental risk assessment of veterinary medicinal products, to be accompanied, if appropriate, by a legislative proposal.
Article 157 - Commission report on traditional herbal products used to treat animals
The Commission shall report to the European Parliament and to the Council by 29 January 2027, on traditional herbal products used to treat animals in the Union.

If appropriate, the Commission shall make a legislative proposal in order to introduce a simplified system for registering traditional herbal products used to treat animals. The Member States shall provide information to the Commission on such traditional herbal products within their territories.
Article 158 - Review of measures regarding animals of the equine species
No later than 29 January 2025, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on its assessment of the situation as regards the treatment with medicinal products of animals of the equine species and their exclusion from the food chain, including with regard to imports of animals of the equine species from third countries, to be accompanied by any appropriate action by the Commission taking into account, in particular, public health, animal welfare, the risks of fraud and the level playing field with third countries.
Article 159 - Transitional provisions regarding certain certificates of good manufacturing practice
Without prejudice to the date of application of this Regulation, the obligations regarding certificates of good manufacturing practice for inactivated immunological veterinary medicinal products which are manufactured from pathogens and antigens obtained from an animal or animals in an epidemiological unit and used for the treatment of that animal or those animals in the same epidemiological unit or for the treatment of an animal or animals in a unit having a confirmed epidemiological link shall only start to apply from the date of application of the implementing acts laying down specific measures on good manufacturing practice for those veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 93(2).
Article 160 - Entry into force and application
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

It shall apply from 28 January 2022.
Article 144 - Tasks of the coordination group
The coordination group shall have the following tasks:

(a) examine questions concerning mutual recognition and decentralised procedures; (b) examine advice from the pharmacovigilance working party of the Committee concerning risk management measures in pharmacovigilance related to veterinary medicinal products authorised in Member States and issue recommendations to the Member States and to the marketing authorisation holders, as necessary; (c) examine questions concerning variations to the terms of marketing authorisations granted by Member States; (d) provide recommendations to Member States whether a specific veterinary medicinal product or a group of veterinary medicinal products is to be considered a veterinary medicinal product within the scope of this Regulation; (e) coordinate the selection of the lead authority responsible for the assessment of the results of the signal management process referred to in Article 81(4); (f) draw up and publish an annual list of reference veterinary medicinal products which shall be subject to harmonisation of the summaries of product characteristics in accordance with Article 70(3).
citation
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Articles 114 and 168(4)(b) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission,
After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee (1),
After consulting the Committee of the Regions,
Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure (2),
Whereas:
recital 1
(1) Directive 2001/82/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (3) and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (4) constituted the Union regulatory framework for the placing on the market, manufacturing, import, export, supply, distribution, pharmacovigilance, control and the use of veterinary medicinal products.
recital 2
(2) In the light of experience and following the assessment by the Commission on the functioning of the internal market for veterinary medicinal products, the regulatory framework for veterinary medicinal products should be adapted to scientific progress, the current market conditions and economic reality, while continuing to ensure a high level of protection of animal health, animal welfare and environment and safeguarding public health.
Article 129 - Temporary safety restrictions
1.

The competent authority and, in the case of centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products, also the Commission may, in the event of a risk to public or animal health or to the environment that requires urgent action, impose temporary safety restrictions on the marketing authorisation holder and other persons having obligations under this Regulation. Those temporary safety restrictions may include: (a) restriction of supply of the veterinary medicinal product at the request of the competent authority and, in the case of centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products, also at the request of the Commission to the competent authority; (b) restriction of the use of the veterinary medicinal product at the request of the competent authority and, in the case of centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products, also at the request of the Commission to the competent authority; (c) suspension of a marketing authorisation by the competent authority having granted that marketing authorisation and, in the case of centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products, by the Commission. 2. The competent authority concerned shall inform, at the latest on the following working day, the other competent authorities and the Commission of any temporary safety restriction imposed. In the case of centralised marketing authorisations, the Commission shall inform, within the same time, the competent authorities of any temporary safety restriction imposed. 3. Competent authorities and the Commission may, at the same time as imposing a restriction in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, refer the issue to the Agency in accordance with Article 82. 4. Where applicable, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit an application for a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation in accordance with Article 62.
Article 130 - Suspending, revoking, or varying the terms, of marketing authorisations
1.

The competent authority or, in the case of centralised marketing authorisations, the Commission shall suspend or revoke the marketing authorisation or request the marketing authorisation holder to submit an application for a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation if the benefit-risk balance of the veterinary medicinal product is no longer positive or is insufficient to ensure food safety. 2. The competent authority or, in the case of centralised marketing authorisations, the Commission, shall revoke the marketing authorisation if the marketing authorisation holder no longer fulfils the requirement on establishment in the Union referred to in Article 5(4). 3. The competent authority or, in the case of centralised marketing authorisations, the Commission may suspend or revoke the marketing authorisation or request the marketing authorisation holder to submit an application for a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation, as applicable, in the case of one or more of the following reasons: (a) the marketing authorisation holder does not comply with the requirements set out in Article 58; (b) the marketing authorisation holder does not comply with the requirements set out in Article 127; (c) the pharmacovigilance system established in accordance with Article 77(1) is inadequate; (d) the marketing authorisation holder does not fulfil its obligations laid down in Article 77; (e) the qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance does not fulfil his or her tasks as laid down in Article 78. 4. For the purpose of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, in the case of centralised marketing authorisations, before taking action, the Commission shall request, where appropriate, the opinion of the Agency within a time limit which it shall determine in view of the urgency of the matter, in order to examine the reasons referred to in those paragraphs. The holder of the marketing authorisation for the veterinary medicinal product shall be invited to provide oral or written explanations within a given time limit set by the Commission. Following an opinion of the Agency, the Commission shall adopt, where necessary, provisional measures, which shall be applied immediately. The Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, take a final decision. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 145(2). 5. Member States shall lay down procedures for application of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.
Article 131 - Suspending or revoking a wholesale distribution authorisation
1.

In the event of non-compliance with the requirements laid down in Article 101(3), the competent authority shall suspend or revoke the wholesale distribution authorisation of veterinary medicinal products. 2. In the event of non-compliance with the requirements laid down in Article 101, other than paragraph 3 thereof, the competent authority may, without prejudice to any other appropriate measures under national law, take one or more of the following measures: (a) suspend the wholesale distribution authorisation; (b) suspend the wholesale distribution authorisation for one or more categories of veterinary medicinal products; (c) revoke the wholesale distribution authorisation for one or more categories of veterinary medicinal products.
Article 132 - Removal of importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substance from the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database
In the event of non-compliance by importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances with the requirements laid down in Article 95, the competent authority shall, temporarily or definitively, remove those importers, manufacturers and distributors from the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database.
Article 92 - Changes to manufacturing authorisations on request
1.

If the holder of a manufacturing authorisation requests a change in that manufacturing authorisation, the procedure for examining such a request shall not exceed 30 days from the day on which the competent authority receives the request. In justified cases, including when an inspection is necessary, that period of time may be extended by the competent authority to 90 days. 2. The request referred to in paragraph 1 shall contain a description of the requested change. 3. Within the period referred to in paragraph 1, the competent authority may require the holder of the manufacturing authorisation to provide supplementary information within a set time limit and may decide to perform an inspection. The procedure shall be suspended until such time as the supplementary information has been provided. 4. The competent authority shall assess the request referred to in paragraph 1, inform the holder of the manufacturing authorisation of the outcome of the assessment and, where appropriate, amend the manufacturing authorisation, and update, where appropriate, the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database.
Article 88 - Manufacturing authorisations
1. A manufacturing authorisation shall be required in order to carry out any of the following activities:

(a) to manufacture veterinary medicinal products even if intended only for export; (b) to engage in any part of the process of manufacturing a veterinary medicinal product or of bringing a veterinary medicinal product to its final state, including engagement in the processing, assembling, packaging and repackaging, labelling and relabelling, storing, sterilising, testing or releasing it for supply as part of that process; or
(c) to import veterinary medicinal products. 2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, Member States may decide that a manufacturing authorisation shall not be required for preparation, dividing up, changes in packaging or presentation of veterinary medicinal products, where those processes are carried out solely for retail directly to the public in accordance with Articles 103 and 104. 3. Where paragraph 2 applies, the package leaflet shall be given with each divided part and the batch number and expiry date shall be clearly indicated. 4. The competent authorities shall record the manufacturing authorisations granted by them in the database on manufacturing and wholesale distribution set up in accordance with Article 91. 5. Manufacturing authorisations shall be valid throughout the Union.
Article 89 - Application for manufacturing authorisation
1.

An application for a manufacturing authorisation shall be submitted to a competent authority in the Member State in which the manufacturing site is located. 2. An application for a manufacturing authorisation shall contain at least the following information: (a) veterinary medicinal products which are to be manufactured or imported; (b) name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business of the applicant; (c) pharmaceutical forms which are to be manufactured or imported; (d) details about the manufacturing site where the veterinary medicinal products are to be manufactured or imported; (e) a statement to the effect that the applicant fulfils the requirements laid down in Articles 93 and 97.
Article 90 - Procedure for granting of manufacturing authorisations
1. Before granting a manufacturing authorisation, the competent authority shall carry out an inspection of the manufacturing site.

2. The competent authority may require the applicant to submit further information in addition to that supplied in the application pursuant to Article 89. Where the competent authority exercises that right, the time limit referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall be suspended or revoked until the applicant has submitted the additional data required. 3. A manufacturing authorisation shall apply only to the manufacturing site and the pharmaceutical forms specified in the application referred to in Article 89. 4. Member States shall lay down procedures for granting or refusing manufacturing authorisations. Such procedures shall not exceed 90 days from receipt by the competent authority of an application for manufacturing authorisation. 5. A manufacturing authorisation may be granted conditionally, subject to a requirement for the applicant to undertake actions or introduce specific procedures within a given time period. Where a manufacturing authorisation has been conditionally granted, it shall be suspended or revoked if the requirements are not complied with.
Article 91 - Database on manufacturing and wholesale distribution
1. The Agency shall establish and maintain a Union database on manufacturing, import and wholesale distribution ('manufacturing and wholesale distribution database').

2. The manufacturing and wholesale distribution database shall include information regarding the grant, suspension or revocation by competent authorities of any manufacturing authorisations, wholesale distribution authorisations, certificates of good manufacturing practice, and registrations of manufacturers, importers and distributors of active substances. 3. Competent authorities shall record in the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database information on manufacturing and wholesale distribution authorisations and certificates granted in accordance with Articles 90, 94 and 100 together with information on importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances registered in accordance with Article 95. 4. The Agency shall, in collaboration with Member States and the Commission, draw up functional specifications, including the format for electronic submissions of data, for the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database. 5. The Agency shall ensure that information reported to the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database is collated and made accessible and that the information is shared. 6. The competent authorities shall have full access to the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database. 7. The general public shall have access to information in the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database, without the possibility to change that information therein.
Article 93 - Obligations of the holder of a manufacturing authorisation
1. The holder of a manufacturing authorisation shall:

(a) have at its disposal suitable and sufficient premises, technical equipment and testing facilities, for the activities stated in its manufacturing authorisation; (b) have at its disposal the services of at least one qualified person referred to in Article 97 and ensure that the qualified person operates in compliance with that Article; (c) enable the qualified person referred to in Article 97 to carry out his or her duties, particularly by providing access to all the necessary documents and premises, and by placing at his or her disposal all the necessary technical equipment and testing facilities; (d) give at least a 30 days prior notice to the competent authority before the replacement of the qualified person referred to in Article 97 or, if prior notice is not possible because the replacement is unexpected, inform the competent authority immediately; (e) have at its disposal the services of staff complying with the legal requirements existing in the relevant Member State as regards both manufacture and controls; (f) allow the representatives of the competent authority access to the premises at any time; (g) keep detailed records of all veterinary medicinal products which the holder of a manufacturing authorisation supplies in accordance with Article 96, and keep samples of each batch; (h) only supply veterinary medicinal products to wholesale distributors of veterinary medicinal products; (i) inform the competent authority and the marketing authorisation holder immediately if the holder of a manufacturing authorisation obtains information that veterinary medicinal products which fall within the scope of its manufacturing authorisation are, or are suspected of being, falsified irrespective of whether those veterinary medicinal products were distributed within the legal supply chain or by illegal means, including illegal sale by means of information society services; (j) comply with good manufacturing practice for veterinary medicinal products and use as starting materials only active substances which have been manufactured in accordance with good manufacturing practice for active substances and distributed in accordance with good distribution practice for active substances; (k) verify that each manufacturer, distributor and importer within the Union from whom the holder of a manufacturing authorisation obtains active substances is registered with the competent authority of the Member State in which the manufacturer, distributor and importer are established, in accordance with Article 95; (l) perform audits based on a risk assessment on the manufacturers, distributors and importers from whom the holder of a manufacturing authorisation obtains active substances. 2. The Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt measures on good manufacturing practice for veterinary medicinal products and active substances used as starting materials, referred to in point (j) of paragraph 1 of this Article. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 145(2).
Article 94 - Certificates of good manufacturing practice
1. Within 90 days of an inspection, the competent authority shall issue a certificate of good manufacturing practice of the manufacturer for the manufacturing site concerned if the inspection establishes that the manufacturer in question is in compliance with the requirements laid down in this Regulation and with the implementing act referred to in Article 93(2).

2. If the outcome of the inspection referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is that the manufacturer does not comply with good manufacturing practice, such information shall be entered into the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database referred to in Article 91. 3. The conclusions reached following an inspection of a manufacturer shall be valid throughout the Union. 4. A competent authority, the Commission or the Agency may require a manufacturer established in a third country to undergo an inspection as referred to in paragraph 1, without prejudice to any arrangements which may have been concluded between the Union and a third country. 5. Importers of veterinary medicinal products shall ensure, before those products are supplied to the Union, that the manufacturer established in a third country is in possession of a certificate of good manufacturing practice issued by a competent authority or, where the third country is party to an arrangement concluded between the Union and the third country, there is an equivalent confirmation.
Article 95 - Importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances established in the Union
1. Importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances used as starting materials in veterinary medicinal products, that are established in the Union, shall register their activity with the competent authority of the Member State in which they are established and shall comply with good manufacturing practice or good distribution practice, as applicable.

2. The registration form for registering the activity with the competent authority shall include at least the following information: (a) name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business; (b) the active substances which are to be imported, manufactured or distributed; (c) particulars regarding the premises and the technical equipment. 3. The importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances referred to in paragraph 1 shall submit the registration form to the competent authority at least 60 days prior to the intended start of their activity. The importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances in operation before 28 January 2022 shall submit the registration form to the competent authority by 29 March 2022. 4. The competent authority may, based on a risk assessment, decide to carry out an inspection. If the competent authority notifies within 60 days of receipt of the registration form that an inspection will be carried out, the activity shall not begin before the competent authority has notified that the activity may start. In such a case, the competent authority shall carry out the inspection and communicate to the importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances referred to in paragraph 1 the results of the inspection within 60 days of the notification of its intention to carry out the inspection. If within 60 days of receipt of the registration form the competent authority has not notified that an inspection will be carried out, the activity may start. 5. The importers, manufacturers and distributors of active substances referred to in paragraph 1 shall communicate annually to the competent authority the changes which have taken place as regards the information provided in the registration form. Any changes that may have an impact on the quality or safety of the active substances that are manufactured, imported or distributed shall be notified immediately. 6. Competent authorities shall enter the information provided in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article and with Article 132 in the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database referred to in Article 91. 7. This Article shall be without prejudice to Article 94. 8. The Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt measures on good distribution practice for active substances used as starting materials in veterinary medicinal products. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 145(2).
Article 96 - Record keeping
1. The holder of a manufacturing authorisation shall record the following information in respect of all veterinary medicinal products that it supplies:

(a) date of the transaction; (b) name of the veterinary medicinal product, and marketing authorisation number if applicable, as well as pharmaceutical form and strength, as appropriate; (c) quantity supplied; (d) name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business of the recipient; (e) batch number; (f) date of expiry. 2. The records referred to in paragraph 1 shall be available for inspection by competent authorities for one year after the date of expiry of the batch or at least five years from recording, whichever is longer.
Article 97 - Qualified person responsible for manufacturing and batch release
1. The holder of a manufacturing authorisation shall have permanently at its disposal the services of at least one qualified person who fulfils the conditions laid down in this Article and is responsible, in particular, for carrying out the duties specified in this Article.

2. The qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 shall hold a university degree in one or more of the following scientific disciplines: pharmacy, human medicine, veterinary medicine, chemistry, pharmaceutical chemistry and technology, or biology. 3. The qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 shall have acquired practical experience over at least two years, in one or more undertakings which are authorised manufacturers, in the activities of quality assurance of medicinal products, of qualitative analysis of medicinal products, of quantitative analysis of active substances and the checking necessary to ensure the quality of veterinary medicinal products. The duration of practical experience required in the first subparagraph may be reduced by one year where a university course lasts for at least five years and by a year and a half where the university course lasts for at least six years. 4. The holder of the manufacturing authorisation, if a natural person, may assume the responsibility referred to in paragraph 1, if he or she personally fulfils the conditions referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3. 5. The competent authority may lay down appropriate administrative procedures to verify that a qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 fulfils the conditions referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3. 6. The qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 shall ensure that each batch of the veterinary medicinal products is manufactured in compliance with good manufacturing practice, and tested in compliance with the terms of the marketing authorisation. That qualified person shall draw up a control report to that effect. Such control reports shall be valid throughout the Union. 7. Where veterinary medicinal products are imported, the qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 shall ensure that each imported production batch has undergone in the Union a full qualitative and a quantitative analysis of at least all the active substances, and all the other tests necessary to ensure the quality of the veterinary medicinal products in accordance with the requirements of the marketing authorisation and that the batch manufactured is in compliance with good manufacturing practice. 8. The qualified person referred to in paragraph 1 shall keep records in respect of each released production batch. Those records shall be kept up to date as operations are carried out and shall remain at the disposal of the competent authority for one year after the date of expiry of the batch or at least five years from recording, whichever is longer. 9. Where veterinary medicinal products manufactured in the Union are exported and subsequently imported back into the Union from a third country, paragraph 6 shall apply. 10. Where veterinary medicinal products are imported from third countries with which the Union has made arrangements regarding application of standards of good manufacturing practice at least equivalent to those laid down in accordance with Article 93(2) and it is demonstrated that the tests referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article have been carried out in the exporting country, the qualified person may draw up the control report referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article without the necessary tests referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article being carried out, unless the competent authority of the Member State of importation decides otherwise.
Article 98 - Certificates of veterinary medicinal products
1.

On the request of a manufacturer or an exporter of veterinary medicinal products, or of the authorities of an importing third country, the competent authority or the Agency shall certify that: (a) the manufacturer holds a manufacturing authorisation; (b) the manufacturer possesses a certificate of good manufacturing practice as referred to in Article 94; or
(c) the veterinary medicinal product concerned has been granted a marketing authorisation in that Member State or, in the case of a request to the Agency, that it has been granted a centralised marketing authorisation. 2. When issuing such certificates, the competent authority or the Agency, as applicable, shall take into account the relevant prevailing administrative arrangements with regard to the content and format of such certificates.
Article 137 - Competent authorities
1. Member States shall designate the competent authorities to carry out tasks under this Regulation.

2. Member States shall ensure that adequate financial resources are available to provide the staff and other resources necessary for the competent authorities to carry out the activities required by this Regulation. 3. The competent authorities shall cooperate with each other in the performance of their tasks under this Regulation and shall give the competent authorities of other Member States necessary and useful support to this end. Competent authorities shall communicate the appropriate information to each other. 4. On reasoned request, the competent authorities shall forthwith communicate the written records referred to in Article 123 and control reports referred to in Article 127 to the competent authorities of other Member States.
Article 138 - Scientific opinion for international organisations for animal health
1. The Agency may give scientific opinions, in the context of cooperation with international organisations for animal health, for the evaluation of veterinary medicinal products intended exclusively for markets outside the Union.

For that purpose, an application shall be submitted to the Agency in accordance with Article 8. The Agency may, after consulting the relevant organisation, draw up a scientific opinion. 2. The Agency shall establish specific procedural rules for the implementation of paragraph 1.
Article 139 - Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products
1. A Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products ('the Committee') is hereby set up within the Agency.

2. The Executive Director of the Agency or his or her representative and representatives of the Commission shall be entitled to attend all meetings of the Committee, working parties and scientific advisory groups. 3. The Committee may establish standing and temporary working parties. The Committee may establish scientific advisory groups in connection with the evaluation of specific types of veterinary medicinal products, to which the Committee may delegate certain tasks associated with drawing up the scientific opinions referred to in point (b) of Article 141(1). 4. The Committee shall establish a standing working party with the sole remit of providing scientific advice to undertakings. The Executive Director, in consultation with the Committee shall set up the administrative structures and procedures allowing the development of advice for undertakings, as referred to in point (n) of Article 57(1) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, particularly regarding the development of novel therapy veterinary medicinal products. 5. The Committee shall establish a standing working party for pharmacovigilance with a remit including evaluating potential signals in pharmacovigilance arising from the Union pharmacovigilance system, proposing the options for risk management referred to in Article 79 to the Committee and to the coordination group, and coordinating the communication about pharmacovigilance between the competent authorities and the Agency. 6. The Committee shall establish its own rules of procedure. Those rules shall, in particular, lay down: (a) procedures for appointing and replacing the Chair; (b) the appointment of members of any working parties or scientific advisory groups on the basis of the lists of accredited experts referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 62(2) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and procedures for consultation of working parties and scientific advisory groups; (c) a procedure for urgent adoption of opinions, particularly in relation to the provisions of this Regulation on market surveillance and pharmacovigilance. The rules of procedure shall enter into force after receiving a favourable opinion from the Commission and the Management Board of the Agency. 7. The Secretariat of the Agency shall provide technical, scientific and administrative support for the Committee, and shall ensure consistency and quality of opinions of the Committee and appropriate coordination between the Committee and other committees of the Agency referred to in Article 56 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 and the coordination group. 8. The opinions of the Committee shall be publicly accessible.
Article 140 - Members of the Committee
1. Each Member State shall, after consultation of the Management Board of the Agency, appoint for a three-year term which may be renewed, one member and an alternate member of the Committee.

The alternates shall represent and vote for the members in their absence and may also be appointed to act as rapporteurs. 2. Members and alternates of the Committee shall be appointed on the basis of their relevant expertise and experience in the scientific assessment of veterinary medicinal products, in order to guarantee the highest level of qualifications and a broad spectrum of relevant expertise. 3. A Member State may delegate its tasks within the Committee to another Member State. Each Member State may represent no more than one other Member State. 4. The Committee may co-opt a maximum of five additional members chosen on the basis of their specific scientific competence. Those members shall be appointed for a term of three years, which may be renewed, and shall not have alternates. 5. With a view to the co-opting of such members, the Committee shall identify the specific complementary scientific competence of the additional members. Co-opted members shall be chosen among experts nominated by Member States or the Agency. 6. The Committee may appoint, for the purpose of performing its tasks referred to in Article 141, one of its members to act as rapporteur. The Committee may also appoint a second member to act as a co-rapporteur. 7. The members of the Committee may be accompanied by experts in specific scientific or technical fields. 8. Members of the Committee and experts responsible for assessing veterinary medicinal products shall rely on the scientific evaluation and resources available to competent authorities. Each competent authority shall monitor and ensure the scientific level and independence of the evaluation carried out and provide appropriate contribution to the tasks of the Committee, and facilitate the activities of appointed Committee members and experts. To that end, Member States shall provide adequate scientific and technical resources to the members and experts they have nominated. 9. Member States shall refrain from giving Committee members and experts instructions incompatible with their own individual tasks, or with the tasks of the Committee and responsibilities of the Agency.
Article 141 - Tasks of the Committee
1. The Committee shall have the following tasks:

(a) carry out the tasks conferred on it under this Regulation and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004; (b) prepare scientific opinions of the Agency on questions relating to the evaluation and use of veterinary medicinal products; (c) prepare opinions on scientific matters concerning the evaluation and use of veterinary medicinal products on the request of the Executive Director of the Agency or the Commission; (d) prepare opinions of the Agency on questions concerning the admissibility of applications submitted in accordance with the centralised procedure, and on granting, varying, suspending or revoking marketing authorisations for centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products; (e) take due account of any request made by Member States for scientific opinions; (f) provide guidance on important questions and issues of general scientific nature; (g) give a scientific opinion, in the context of cooperation with the World Organisation for Animal Health, concerning the evaluation of certain veterinary medicinal products intended exclusively for markets outside the Union; (h) advise on the maximum limits for residues of veterinary medicinal products and biocidal products used in animal husbandry which may be accepted in foodstuffs of animal origin in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 470/2009; (i) provide scientific advice on the use of antimicrobials and antiparasitics in animals in order to minimise the occurrence of resistance in the Union, and update that advice when needed; (j) provide objective scientific opinions to the Member States on the questions which are referred to the Committee. 2. The members of the Committee shall ensure that there is appropriate coordination between the tasks of the Agency and the work of competent authorities. 3. When preparing opinions, the Committee shall use its best endeavours to reach a scientific consensus. If such consensus cannot be reached, the opinion shall consist of the position of the majority of members and divergent positions, with the grounds on which they are based. 4. If there is a request for re-examination of an opinion where this possibility is provided for in the Union law, the Committee shall appoint a different rapporteur and, where necessary, a different co-rapporteur from those appointed for the opinion. The re-examination procedure may deal only with the points of the opinion initially identified by the applicant and may be based only on the scientific data available when the Committee adopted the opinion. The applicant may request that the Committee consult a scientific advisory group in connection with the re-examination.
Article 142 - Coordination group for mutual recognition and decentralised procedures for veterinary medicinal products
1. The coordination group for mutual recognition and decentralised procedures for veterinary medicinal products ('the coordination group') shall be set up.

2. The Agency shall provide a secretariat for the coordination group to assist in the operations of the procedures of the coordination group and to ensure an appropriate liaison between this group, the Agency and competent authorities. 3. The coordination group shall draw up its rules of procedure, which shall enter into force after receiving a favourable opinion from the Commission. Those rules of procedure shall be made public. 4. The Executive Director of the Agency or his or her representative and representatives of the Commission shall be entitled to attend all meetings of the coordination group. 5. The coordination group shall cooperate closely with the competent authorities and the Agency.
Article 143 - Members of the coordination group
1. The coordination group shall be composed of one representative per Member State appointed for a renewable period of three years.

Member States may appoint an alternate representative. Members of the coordination group may arrange to be accompanied by experts. 2. Members of the coordination group and their experts shall rely on the scientific and regulatory resources available to their competent authorities, on the relevant scientific assessments and on the recommendations of the Committee for the fulfilment of their tasks. Each competent authority shall monitor the quality of the evaluations carried out by their representative and facilitate their activities. 3. Members of the coordination group shall use their best endeavours to reach consensus on matters under discussion.
Article 133 - Suspending or revoking manufacturing authorisations
In the event of non-compliance with the requirements laid down in Article 93, the competent authority shall, without prejudice to any other appropriate measures under national law, take one or more of the following measures:

(a) suspend the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products; (b) suspend imports of veterinary medicinal products from third countries; (c) suspend or revoke the manufacturing authorisation for one or more pharmaceutical forms; (d) suspend or revoke the manufacturing authorisation for one or more activities in one or more manufacturing sites.
Article 134 - Prohibiting the supply of veterinary medicinal products
1.

In the event of a risk to public or animal health or to the environment, the competent authority or, in the case of centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products, the Commission, shall prohibit the supply of a veterinary medicinal product and require the marketing authorisation holder or suppliers to cease the supply or recall of the veterinary medicinal product from the market if any of the following conditions apply: (a) the benefit-risk balance of the veterinary medicinal product is no longer positive; (b) the qualitative or quantitative composition of the veterinary medicinal product is not as stated in the summary of the product characteristics referred to in Article 35; (c) the recommended withdrawal period is insufficient to ensure food safety; (d) the control tests referred to in Article 127(1) have not been carried out; or
(e) the incorrect labelling might lead to a serious risk to animal or public health. 2. The competent authorities or the Commission may confine the prohibition on supply and recall from the market solely to the contested production batches of the veterinary medicinal product concerned.
Article 135 - Penalties imposed by Member States
1. Member States shall lay down rules on penalties applicable to infringements of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.

The penalties provided for shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Member States shall, by 28 January 2022, notify the Commission of those rules and of those measures and shall notify it, without delay, of any subsequent amendments affecting them. 2. The competent authorities shall ensure the publication of information on the type and number of cases where financial penalties were imposed, having regard to the legitimate interest of the concerned parties for the protection of their business secrets. 3. Member States shall inform the Commission immediately of any litigation against the holders of marketing authorisations for centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products brought for infringement of this Regulation.
Article 136 - Financial penalties imposed by the Commission on holders of marketing authorisation for centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products
1. The Commission may impose financial penalties in the form of fines or periodic penalty payments on the holders of marketing authorisation for centrally authorised veterinary medicinal products granted under this Regulation if they fail to comply with any of their obligations laid down in Annex III in connection with the marketing authorisations.

2. The Commission may, insofar as specifically provided for in the delegated acts referred to in point (b) of paragraph 7, impose the financial penalties referred to in paragraph 1 also on a legal entity or legal entities other than the marketing authorisation holder provided that such entities form part of the same economic entity as the marketing authorisation holder and that such other legal entities: (a) exerted a decisive influence over the marketing authorisation holder; or
(b) were involved in, or could have addressed, such failure to comply with the obligation by the marketing authorisation holder. 3. Where the Agency or a competent authority of a Member State is of the opinion that a marketing authorisation holder has failed to comply with any of the obligations, as referred to in paragraph 1, it may request the Commission to investigate whether to impose financial penalties pursuant to that paragraph. 4. In determining whether to impose a financial penalty and in determining its appropriate amount, the Commission shall be guided by the principles of effectiveness, proportionality and dissuasiveness and take into consideration, where relevant, the seriousness and the effects of the failure to comply with the obligations. 5. For the purposes of paragraph 1, the Commission shall also take into account: (a) any infringement procedure initiated by a Member State against the same marketing authorisation holder on the basis of the same legal grounds and the same facts; and
(b) any sanctions, including penalties, already imposed on the same marketing authorisation holder on the basis of the same legal grounds and the same facts. 6. Where the Commission finds that the marketing authorisation holder has failed, intentionally or negligently, to comply with its obligations, as referred to in paragraph 1, it may adopt a decision imposing a fine not exceeding 5 % of the marketing authorisation holder's Union turnover in the business year preceding the date of that decision. Where the marketing authorisation holder continues to fail to comply with its obligations referred to in paragraph 1, the Commission may adopt a decision imposing periodic penalty payments per day not exceeding 2,5 % of the marketing authorisation holder's average daily Union turnover in the business year preceding the date of that decision. Periodic penalty payments may be imposed for a period running from the date of notification of the relevant Commission's decision until the failure to comply with the obligation by the marketing authorisation holder, as referred to in paragraph 1, has been brought to an end. 7. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 147 in order to supplement this Regulation by laying down: (a) procedures to be applied by the Commission when imposing fines or periodic penalty payments, including rules on the initiation of the procedure, measures of inquiry, rights of defence, access to file, legal representation and confidentiality; (b) further detailed rules on the imposition by the Commission of financial penalties on legal entities other than the marketing authorisation holder; (c) rules on duration of procedure and limitation periods; (d) elements to be taken into account by the Commission when setting the level of, and imposing, fines and periodic penalty payments, as well as the conditions and methods for their collection. 8. When conducting the investigation on a failure to comply with any of the obligations referred to in paragraph 1, the Commission may cooperate with national competent authorities and rely on resources provided by the Agency. 9. Where the Commission adopts a decision imposing a financial penalty, it shall publish a concise summary of the case, including the names of the marketing authorisation holders involved and the amounts of, and reasons for, the financial penalties imposed, having regard to the legitimate interest of the marketing authorisation holders for the protection of their business secrets. 10. The Court of Justice of the European Union shall have unlimited jurisdiction to review decisions whereby the Commission has imposed financial penalties. The Court of Justice of the European Union may cancel, reduce or increase the fine or periodic penalty payment imposed by the Commission.
Article 123 - Controls
1. Competent authorities shall carry out controls of the following persons:

(a) manufacturers and importers of veterinary medicinal products and active substances; (b) distributors of active substances; (c) marketing authorisation holders; (d) holders of a wholesale distribution authorisation; (e) retailers; (f) owners and keepers of food-producing animals; (g) veterinarians; (h) holders of a registration for homeopathic veterinary medicinal products; (i) holders of veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 5(6); and
(j) any other persons having obligations under this Regulation. 2. The controls referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out regularly, on a risk-basis, in order to verify that the persons referred to in paragraph 1 comply with this Regulation. 3. The risk-based controls referred to in paragraph 2 shall be carried out by the competent authorities taking account of at least: (a) the intrinsic risks associated with the activities of the persons referred to in paragraph 1 and the location of their activities; (b) the past record of the persons referred to paragraph 1 as regards the results of controls performed on them and their previous compliance; (c) any information that might indicate non-compliance; (d) the potential impact of non-compliance on public health, animal health, animal welfare and the environment. 4. Controls may also be carried out on the request of a competent authority of another Member State, the Commission or the Agency. 5. Controls shall be carried out by representatives of the competent authority. 6. Inspections may be carried out as part of the controls. Such inspections may be made unannounced. During those inspections the representatives of a competent authority shall at least be empowered to: (a) inspect the premises, equipment, means of transport, records, documents and systems, related to the objective of the inspection; (b) inspect and take samples with a view to submitting them for an independent analysis by an Official Medicines Control Laboratory or by a laboratory designated for that purpose by a Member State; (c) document any evidence deemed necessary by the representatives; (d) carry out the same controls on any parties performing the tasks required under this Regulation with, for or on behalf of the persons referred to in paragraph 1. 7. The representatives of the competent authorities shall keep a record of every control that they carry out and where necessary shall draw up a report. The person referred to in paragraph 1 shall be promptly informed in writing by the competent authority of any case of non-compliance identified through the controls and shall have the opportunity to submit comments within a time limit set by the competent authority. 8. The competent authorities shall have procedures or arrangements in place to ensure that staff performing controls are free from any conflict of interest.
Article 124 - Audits by the Commission
The Commission may carry out audits in Member States on their competent authorities for the purpose of confirming the appropriateness of the controls carried out by those competent authorities.

Such audits shall be coordinated with the relevant Member State and shall be carried out in a manner which avoids unnecessary administrative burden. After each audit, the Commission shall draft a report containing, where appropriate, recommendations to the relevant Member State. The Commission shall send the draft report to the competent authority for comments and shall take into account any such comments in drawing up the final report. The final report and the comments shall be made public by the Commission.
Article 125 - Certificate of suitability
In order to verify whether the data submitted for obtaining a certificate of suitability complies with the monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia, the standardisation body for nomenclatures and quality norms within the meaning of the Convention on the elaboration of a European Pharmacopoeia accepted by Council Decision 94/358/EC (27) (European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and Healthcare ('EDQM')) may ask the Commission or the Agency to request an inspection by a competent authority when the starting material concerned is subject to a European Pharmacopoeia monograph.
Article 126 - Specific rules on pharmacovigilance inspections
1.

The competent authorities and the Agency shall ensure that all pharmacovigilance system master files in the Union are regularly checked and that the pharmacovigilance systems are being correctly applied. 2. The Agency shall coordinate and the competent authorities shall carry out inspections on the pharmacovigilance systems of veterinary medicinal products authorised in accordance with Article 44. 3. The competent authorities shall carry out inspections on the pharmacovigilance systems of veterinary medicinal products authorised in accordance with Articles 47, 49, 52 and 53. 4. The competent authorities of the Member States in which the pharmacovigilance system master files are located shall carry out inspections of the pharmacovigilance systems master files. 5. Notwithstanding paragraph 4 of this Article and pursuant to Article 80, a competent authority may enter into any work-sharing initiatives and delegation of responsibilities with other competent authorities to avoid the duplication of inspections of pharmacovigilance systems. 6. The results of the pharmacovigilance inspections shall be recorded in the pharmacovigilance database as referred to in Article 74.
Article 127 - Proof of the product quality for veterinary medicinal products
1. The marketing authorisation holder shall have at its disposal the results of the control tests carried out on the veterinary medicinal product or on the constituents and intermediate products of the manufacturing process, in accordance with the methods laid down in the marketing authorisation.

2. If a competent authority concludes that a batch of a veterinary medicinal product is not in conformity with the control report of the manufacturer or the specifications provided for in the marketing authorisation, it shall take measures in relation to the marketing authorisation holder and the manufacturer, and shall inform accordingly the competent authorities of other Member States in which the veterinary medicinal product is authorised, and also the Agency in case the veterinary medicinal product is authorised under the centralised procedure.
Article 128 - Proof of the product quality specific for immunological veterinary medicinal products
1. For the purposes of application of Article 127(1), competent authorities may require the holder of a marketing authorisation for immunological veterinary medicinal products to submit to the competent authorities the copies of all the control reports signed by the qualified person in accordance with Article 97.

2. The holder of a marketing authorisation for immunological veterinary medicinal products shall ensure that an adequate number of representative samples of each batch of veterinary medical products is held in stock at least up to the expiry date, and provide samples promptly to the competent authorities on request. 3. Where necessary for reasons of human or animal health, a competent authority may require the holder of a marketing authorisation for an immunological veterinary medicinal product to submit samples of batches of the bulk product or of the immunological veterinary medicinal product for control by an Official Medicines Control Laboratory before the product is placed on the market. 4. On the request of a competent authority, the marketing authorisation holder shall promptly supply the samples referred to in paragraph 2, together with the control reports referred to in paragraph 1, for control testing. The competent authority shall inform the competent authorities in other Member States in which the immunological veterinary medicinal product is authorised, as well as the EDQM and the Agency in case the immunological veterinary medicinal product is authorised under the centralised procedure, of its intention to control batches of the immunological veterinary medicinal product. 5. On the basis of the control reports referred to in this Chapter, the laboratory responsible for the control shall repeat, on the samples provided, all the tests carried out by the manufacturer on the finished immunological veterinary medicinal product, in accordance with the relevant specifications in its dossier for marketing authorisation. 6. The list of tests to be repeated by the laboratory responsible for the control shall be restricted to justified tests, provided that all competent authorities in the relevant Member States, and, if appropriate, the EDQM, agree to such a restriction. For immunological veterinary medicinal products authorised under the centralised procedure, the list of tests to be repeated by the control laboratory may be reduced only upon agreement of the Agency. 7. The competent authorities shall recognise the results of the tests referred to in paragraph 5. 8. Unless the Commission is informed that a longer period is necessary to conduct the tests, the competent authorities shall ensure that the control is completed within 60 days of receipt of the samples and control reports. 9. The competent authority shall notify the competent authorities of other relevant Member States, the EDQM, the marketing authorisation holder and, if appropriate, the manufacturer, of the results of the tests within the same period of time. 10. The competent authority shall verify that the manufacturing processes used in the manufacture of immunological veterinary medicinal products are validated and that batch-to-batch consistency is ensured.
Article 85 - Homeopathic veterinary medicinal products
1. Homeopathic veterinary medicinal products that meet the conditions set out in Article 86 shall be registered in accordance with Article 87.

2. Homeopathic veterinary medicinal products that do not meet the conditions set out in Article 86 shall be subject to Article 5.
Article 86 - Registration of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products
1. A homeopathic veterinary medicinal product that meets all of the following conditions shall be subject to a registration procedure:

(a) it is administered by a route described in the European Pharmacopoeia or, in the absence thereof, by the pharmacopoeias used officially in Member States; (b) it has a sufficient degree of dilution to guarantee its safety, and shall not contain more than one part per 10 000 of the mother tincture; (c) it has no therapeutic indication appearing on its labelling or in any information relating thereto. 2. Member States may lay down procedures for the registration of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products in addition to those laid down in this Chapter.
Article 87 - Application and procedure for registration of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products
1. The following documents shall be included in the application for a registration of a homeopathic veterinary medicinal product:

(a) scientific name or other name given in a pharmacopoeia of the homeopathic stock or stocks, together with a statement of the route of administration, pharmaceutical form and degree of dilution to be registered; (b) a dossier describing how the homeopathic stock or stocks are obtained and controlled, and justifying their homeopathic use, on the basis of an adequate bibliography; in the case of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products containing biological substances, a description of the measures taken to ensure the absence of pathogens; (c) the manufacturing and control file for each pharmaceutical form and a description of the method of dilution and potentisation; (d) the manufacturing authorisation for the homeopathic veterinary medicinal products concerned; (e) copies of any registrations obtained for the same homeopathic veterinary medicinal products in other Member States; (f) the text to appear on the package leaflet, outer packaging and immediate packaging of the homeopathic veterinary medicinal products to be registered; (g) data concerning the stability of the homeopathic veterinary medicinal product; (h) in the case of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products intended for food-producing animal species, the active substances shall be those pharmacologically active substances allowed in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 470/2009 and any acts adopted on the basis thereof. 2. An application for registration may cover a series of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products of the same pharmaceutical form and derived from the same homeopathic stock or stocks. 3. The competent authority may determine the conditions under which the registered homeopathic veterinary medicinal product may be made available. 4. The procedure of registration of a homeopathic veterinary medicinal product shall be completed within 90 days of the submission of a valid application. 5. A registration holder of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products shall have the same obligations as a marketing authorisation holder, subject to Article 2(5). 6. A registration for a homeopathic veterinary medicinal product shall only be granted to an applicant established in the Union. The requirement to be established in the Union shall also apply to registration holders.
INFORMATION REFERRED TO IN POINT (A) OF ARTICLE 8(1)
ANNEX I
INFORMATION REFERRED TO IN POINT (A) OF ARTICLE 8(1) 
 1. Legal basis for the application for the marketing authorisation
 2. Applicant
2.1. Name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business of the applicant
2.2. Name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business of manufacturer(s) or importer(s) of the finished veterinary medicinal product and name or company name and permanent address or registered place of business of the manufacturer of the active substance(s) 
2.3. Name and address of the sites involved in the different stages of the manufacturing, importing, control and batch release
 3. Identification of the veterinary medicinal product
3.1. Name of the veterinary medicinal product and Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical Veterinary code (ATCvet Code)
3.2. Active substance(s) and, if applicable, diluent(s) 
3.3. Strength or, in case of immunological veterinary medicinal product, biological activity, potency or titre
3.4. Pharmaceutical form
3.5. Route of administration
3.6. Target species
 4. Manufacturing and pharmacovigilance information
4.1. Proof of a manufacturing authorisation or certificate of good manufacturing practice
4.2. Reference number of pharmacovigilance system master file
 5. Veterinary medicinal product information
5.1. Proposed summary of the product characteristics drawn up in accordance with Article 35
5.2. Description of the final presentation of the veterinary medicinal product, including packaging and labelling
5.3. Proposed text of the information to be provided on the immediate packaging, outer packaging and the package leaflet in accordance with Articles 10 to 16
 6. Other information
6.1. List of countries in which a marketing authorisation has been granted or revoked for the veterinary medicinal product
6.2. Copies of all the summaries of product characteristics as included in the terms of marketing authorisations granted by Member States
6.3. List of countries in which an application has been submitted or refused
6.4. List of Member States in which the veterinary medicinal product is to be placed on the market
6.5. Critical expert reports on quality, safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product.
| Directive 2001/82/EC | This Regulation |
|---|---|
| Article 1 | Article 4 |
| Article 2(1) | Article 2(1) |
| Article 2(2) | Article 3 |
| Article 2(3) | Article 2(2),(3) and (4) |
| Article 3 | Article 2(4) |
| Article 4(2) | Article 5(6) |
| Article 5 | Article 5 |
| Article 5(1) second sentence | Article 38(3) |
| Article 5(2) | Article 58(1) |
| Article 6(1), (2) | Article 8(3) |
| Article 6(3) | Article 8(4) |
| Article 7 | Article 116 |
| Article 8 | Article 116 |
| Article 8 third sentence |  |
| Article 9 | Article 9 |
| Article 10 | Article 112 |
| Article 11 | Articles 113, 114 and 115 |
| Article 12 | Article 8 |
| Article 13(1) | Article 18 |
| Article 13(2) | Article 4(8) and (9) |
| Article 13(3),(4) | Article 19 |
| Article 13(5) | Articles 38, 39 and 40 |
| Article 13(6) | Article 41 |
| Article 13a | Article 22 |
| Article 13b | Article 20 |
| Article 13c | Article 21 |
| Article 14 | Article 35 |
| Article 16 | Article 85 |
| Article 17 | Article 86 |
| Article 18 | Article 87 |
| Article 19 | Article 85 |
| Article 20 | Article 85 |
| Article 21(1) | Article 47 |
| Article 21(2) | Article 46 |
| Article 22 | Article 48 |
| Article 23 | Articles 28 and 29 |
| Article 24 | Article 30 |
| Article 25 | Article 33 |
| Article 26(3) | Articles 25 and 26 |
| Article 27 | Article 58 |
| Article 27a | Article 58(6) |
| Article 27b | Article 60 |
| Article 28 | Article 5(2) |
| Article 30 | Article 37 |
| Article 31 | Articles 142 and 143 |
| Article 32 | Articles 49 and 52 |
| Article 33 | Article 54 |
| Article 35 | Article 82 |
| Article 36 | Article 83 |
| Article 37 | Article 84 |
| Article 38 | Article 84 |
| Article 39 | Article 60 |
| Article 40 | Article 129 |
| Article 44 | Article 88 |
| Article 45 | Article 89 |
| Article 46 | Article 90 |
| Article 47 | Article 90 |
| Article 48 | Article 92 |
| Article 49 | Article 90 |
| Article 50 | Articles 93 and 96 |
| Article 50a | Article 95 |
| Article 51 | Article 89 |
| Article 52 | Article 97 |
| Article 53 | Article 97 |
| Article 55 | Article 97 |
| Article 56 | Article 97 |
| Article 58 | Articles 10 and 11 |
| Article 59 | Article 12 |
| Article 60 | Article 11(4) |
| Article 61 | Article 14 |
| Article 64 | Article 16 |
| Article 65 | Articles 99 and 100 |
| Article 66 | Article 103 |
| Article 67 | Article 34 |
| Article 68 | Article 103 |
| Article 69 | Article 108 |
| Article 70 | Article 111 |
| Article 71 | Article 110 |
| Article 72 | Article 73 |
| Article 73 | Articles 73 and 74 |
| Article 74 | Article 78 |
| Article 75 | Article 77 |
| Article 76 | Article 79 |
| Article 78(2) | Article 130 |
| Article 80 | Article 123 |
| Article 81 | Article 127 |
| Article 82 | Article 128 |
| Article 83 | Articles 129 and 130 |
| Article 84 | Article 134 |
| Article 85(1),(2) | Article 133 |
| Article 85(3) | Articles 119 and 120 |
| Article 87 | Article 79(2) |
| Article 88 | Article 146 |
| Article 89 | Article 145 |
| Article 90 | Article 137 |
| Article 93 | Article 98 |
| Article 95 | Article 9(2) |
| Article 95a | Article 117 |
Article 1 - Subject matter
This Regulation lays down rules for the placing on the market, manufacturing, import, export, supply, distribution, pharmacovigilance, control and use of veterinary medicinal products.
Article 2 - Scope
1. This Regulation shall apply to veterinary medicinal products prepared industrially or by a method involving an industrial process and intended to be placed on the market.

2. In addition to the products referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, Articles 94 and 95 shall also apply to active substances used as starting materials in veterinary medicinal products. 3. In addition to the products referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, Articles 94, 105, 108, 117, 120, 123 and 134 shall also apply to inactivated immunological veterinary medicinal products which are manufactured from pathogens and antigens obtained from an animal or animals in an epidemiological unit and used for the treatment of that animal or those animals in the same epidemiological unit or for the treatment of an animal or animals in a unit having a confirmed epidemiological link. 4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, only Articles 55, 56, 94, 117, 119, 123, 134 and Section 5 of Chapter IV shall apply to veterinary medicinal products authorised in accordance with Article 5(6). 5. By way of derogation from paragraph 1 of this Article, Articles 5 to 15, 17 to 33, 35 to 54, 57 to 72, 82 to 84, 95, 98, 106, 107, 110, 112 to 116, 128, 130 and 136 shall not apply to homeopathic veterinary medicinal products which are registered in accordance with Article 86. 6. In addition to the products referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, Chapter VII shall also apply to: (a) substances that have anabolic, anti-infectious, antiparasitic, anti-inflammatory, hormonal, narcotic or psychotropic properties and that may be used in animals; (b) veterinary medicinal products prepared in a pharmacy or by a person permitted to do so under national law, in accordance with a veterinary prescription for an individual animal or a small group of animals ('magistral formula'); (c) veterinary medicinal products prepared in a pharmacy in accordance with the directions of a pharmacopoeia and intended to be supplied directly to the end-user ('officinal formula'). Such officinal formula shall be subject to a veterinary prescription when intended for food-producing animals. 7. This Regulation shall not apply to: (a) veterinary medicinal products containing autologous or allogeneic cells or tissues that have not been subjected to an industrial process; (b) veterinary medicinal products based on radio-active isotopes; (c) feed additives as defined in point (a) of Article 2(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (19); (d) veterinary medicinal products intended for research and development; (e) medicated feed and intermediate products as defined in points (a) and (b) of Article 3(2) of Regulation (EU) 2019/4. 8. This Regulation shall, except as regards the centralised marketing authorisation procedure, be without prejudice to national provisions on fees. 9. Nothing in this Regulation shall prevent a Member State from maintaining or introducing on its territory any national control measure it deems appropriate regarding narcotic and psychotropic substances.
Article 3 - Conflict of laws
1. Where a veterinary medicinal product referred to in Article 2(1) of this Regulation also falls within the scope of Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (20) or Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003, and there is a conflict between this Regulation and Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 or Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003, this Regulation shall prevail.

2. For the purpose of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Commission may, by means of implementing acts, adopt decisions on whether a specific product or group of products is to be considered as a veterinary medicinal product. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 145(2).
Article 4 - Definitions
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply:

(1) 'veterinary medicinal product' means any substance or combination of substances which fulfils at least one of the following conditions: (a) it is presented as having properties for treating or preventing disease in animals; (b) its purpose is to be used in, or administered to, animals with a view to restoring, correcting or modifying physiological functions by exerting a pharmacological, immunological or metabolic action; (c) its purpose is to be used in animals with a view to making a medical diagnosis; (d) its purpose is to be used for euthanasia of animals; (2) 'substance' means any matter of the following origin: (a) human; (b) animal; (c) vegetable; (d) chemical; (3) 'active substance' means any substance or mixture of substances intended to be used in the manufacture of a veterinary medicinal product that, when used in its production, becomes an active ingredient of that product; (4) 'excipient' means any constituent of a veterinary medicinal product other than an active substance or packaging material; (5) 'immunological veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product intended to be administered to an animal in order to produce active or passive immunity or to diagnose its state of immunity; (6) 'biological veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product where an active substance is a biological substance; (7) 'biological substance' means a substance that is produced by or extracted from a biological source and that needs for its characterisation and the determination of its quality a combination of physico-chemical-biological testing, together with knowledge of the production process and its control; (8) 'reference veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product authorised in accordance with Article 44, 47, 49, 52, 53 or 54 as referred to in Article 5(1) on the basis of an application submitted in accordance with Article 8; (9) 'generic veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product which has the same qualitative and quantitative composition of active substances and the same pharmaceutical form as the reference veterinary medicinal product, and with regard to which bioequivalence with the reference veterinary medicinal product has been demonstrated; (10) 'homeopathic veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product prepared from homeopathic stocks in accordance with a homeopathic manufacturing procedure described by the European Pharmacopoeia or, in the absence thereof, by the pharmacopoeias used officially in Member States; (11) 'antimicrobial resistance' means the ability of micro-organisms to survive or to grow in the presence of a concentration of an antimicrobial agent which is usually sufficient to inhibit or kill micro-organisms of the same species; (12) 'antimicrobial' means any substance with a direct action on micro-organisms used for treatment or prevention of infections or infectious diseases, including antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals and anti-protozoals; (13) 'antiparasitic' means a substance that kills or interrupts the development of parasites, used for the purpose of treating or preventing an infection, infestation or disease caused or transmitted by parasites, including substances with a repelling activity; (14) 'antibiotic' means any substance with a direct action on bacteria that is used for treatment or prevention of infections or infectious diseases; (15) 'metaphylaxis' means the administration of a medicinal product to a group of animals after a diagnosis of clinical disease in part of the group has been established, with the aim of treating the clinically sick animals and controlling the spread of the disease to animals in close contact and at risk and which may already be subclinically infected; (16) 'prophylaxis' means the administration of a medicinal product to an animal or group of animals before clinical signs of a disease, in order to prevent the occurrence of disease or infection; (17) 'clinical trial' means a study which aims to examine under field conditions the safety or efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product under normal conditions of animal husbandry or as part of normal veterinary practice for the purpose of obtaining a marketing authorisation or a change thereof; (18) 'pre-clinical study' means a study not covered by the definition of clinical trial which aims to investigate the safety or efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product for the purpose of obtaining a marketing authorisation or a change thereof; (19) 'benefit-risk balance' means an evaluation of the positive effects of the veterinary medicinal product in relation to the following risks relating to the use of that product: (a) any risk relating to the quality, safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal products as regards animal or human health; (b) any risk of undesirable effects on the environment; (c) any risk relating to the development of resistance; (20) 'common name' means the international non-proprietary name recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) for a substance or, if one does not exist, the name generally used; (21) 'name of the veterinary medicinal product' means either an invented name not liable to confusion with the common name, or a common or scientific name accompanied by a trademark or the name of the marketing authorisation holder; (22) 'strength' means the content of active substances in a veterinary medicinal product, expressed quantitatively per dosage unit, per unit of volume or per unit of weight according to the pharmaceutical form; (23) 'competent authority' means an authority designated by a Member State in accordance with Article 137; (24) 'labelling' means information on the immediate packaging or the outer packaging; (25) 'immediate packaging' means the container or any other form of packaging that is in direct contact with the veterinary medicinal product; (26) 'outer packaging' means packaging in which the immediate packaging is placed; (27) 'package leaflet' means a documentation leaflet on a veterinary medicinal product which contains information to ensure its safe and efficacious use; (28) 'letter of access' means an original document, signed by the data owner or its representative, which states that the data may be used for the benefit of the applicant in relation to the competent authorities, the European Medicines Agency established by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ('the Agency') or the Commission for the purposes of this Regulation; (29) 'limited market' means a market for one of the following medicinal product types: (a) veterinary medicinal products for the treatment or prevention of diseases that occur infrequently or in limited geographical areas; (b) veterinary medicinal products for animal species other than cattle, sheep for meat production, pigs, chickens, dogs and cats; (30) 'pharmacovigilance' means the science and activities relating to the detection, assessment, understanding and prevention of suspected adverse events or any other problem related to a medicinal product; (31) 'pharmacovigilance system master file' means a detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system used by the marketing authorisation holder with respect to one or more authorised veterinary medicinal products; (32) 'control' means any task performed by a competent authority for the verification of compliance with this Regulation; (33) 'veterinary prescription' means a document issued by a veterinarian for a veterinary medicinal product or a medicinal product for human use for its use in animals;
REQUIREMENTS REFERRED TO IN POINT (B) OF ARTICLE 8(1)
(*1)
ANNEX II
REQUIREMENTS REFERRED TO IN POINT (B) OF ARTICLE 8(1) (*1)
INTRODUCTION AND GENERAL PRINCIPLES
 1. The particulars and documents accompanying an application for marketing authorisation pursuant to Articles 12 to 13d shall be presented in accordance with the requirements set out in this Annex and shall take into account the guidance published by the Commission in The rules governing medicinal products in the European Union, Volume 6 B, Notice to applicants, Veterinary medicinal products, Presentation and Contents of the Dossier.

2. In assembling the dossier for application for marketing authorisation, applicants shall also take into account the current state of veterinary medicinal knowledge and the scientific guidelines relating to the quality, safety and efficacy of veterinary medicinal products published by the European Medicines Agency (Agency) and the other pharmaceutical Community guidelines published by the Commission in different volumes of The rules governing medicinal products in the European Union. 3. For veterinary medicinal products other than immunological veterinary medicinal products, with respect to the quality (pharmaceutical) part (physico-chemical, biological and microbiological tests) of the dossier, all relevant monographs including general monographs and the general chapters of the European Pharmacopoeia are applicable. For immunological veterinary medicinal products, with respect to the quality, safety and efficacy parts of the dossier, all relevant monographs including general monographs and the general chapters of the European Pharmacopoeia are applicable. 4. The manufacturing process shall comply with the requirements of Commission Directive 91/412/EEC (1) laying down the principles and guidelines for veterinary medicinal products and with the principles and guidelines on Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), published by the Commission in The rules governing medicinal products in the European Union, Volume 4. 
 5. All information which is relevant to the evaluation of the veterinary medicinal product concerned shall be included in the application, whether favourable or unfavourable to the product. In particular, all relevant details shall be given of any incomplete or abandoned test or trial relating to the veterinary medicinal product. 6. Pharmacological, toxicological, residue and safety tests shall be carried out in conformity with the provisions related to Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) laid down in Directive 2004/10/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (2) and Directive 2004/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (3). 7. Member States shall ensure that all experiments on animals are conducted in accordance with Council Directive 86/609/EEC (4). 8. In order to monitor the risk/benefit assessment, any new information not in the original application and all pharmacovigilance information shall be submitted to the competent authority. After marketing authorisation has been granted, any change to the content of the dossier shall be submitted to the competent authorities in accordance with Commission Regulations (EC) No 1084/2003 (5) or (EC) No 1085/2003 (6) for veterinary medicinal products authorised as defined in Article 1 of those Regulations, respectively. 9. The environmental risk assessment connected with the release of veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) within the meaning of Article 2 of Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (7) shall be provided in the dossier. The information shall be presented in accordance with the provisions of Directive 2001/18/EC and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (8), taking into account guidance documents published by the Commission. 10. In cases of applications for marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products indicated for animal species and indications representing smaller market sectors, a more flexible approach may be applicable. In such cases, relevant scientific guidelines and/or scientific advice should be taken into account. This Annex is divided in four titles: Title I describes the standardised requirements for applications for veterinary medicinal products other than immunological veterinary medicinal products. Title II describes the standardised requirements for applications for immunological veterinary medicinal products. Title III describes specific types of marketing authorisation dossiers and requirements. Title IV describes the dossier requirements for particular types of veterinary medicinal products. TITLE I
Requirements for veterinary medicinal products other than immunological veterinary medicinal products
The following requirements shall apply to veterinary medicinal products other than immunological veterinary medicinal products, except where otherwise set out in Title III.
PART 1
summary of the dossier
A. ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION
The veterinary medicinal product, which is the subject of the application, shall be identified by its name and by the name of the active substance(s), together with the strength, the pharmaceutical form, the route and method of administration (see Article 12(3)(f) of Directive) and a description of the final presentation of the product, including packaging, labelling and package leaflet (see Article 12(3)-(l) of Directive). The name and address of the applicant shall be given, together with the name and address of the manufacturers and the sites involved in the different stages of the manufacture, testing and release (including the manufacturer of the finished product and the manufacturer(s) of the active substance(s)), and where relevant the name and address of the importer. The applicant shall identify the number and titles of volumes of documentation submitted in support of the application and indicate what samples, if any, are also provided. Annexed to the administrative information shall be a document showing that the manufacturer is authorised to produce the veterinary medicinal products concerned, as defined in Article 44, together with a list of countries in which authorisation has been granted, copies of all the summaries of product characteristics in accordance with Article 14 as approved by Member States and a list of countries in which an application has been submitted or refused. B. SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS, LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
The applicant shall propose a summary of the product characteristics, in accordance with Article 14 of this Directive. A proposed labelling text for the immediate and outer packaging shall be provided in accordance with Title V of this Directive, together with a package leaflet where one is required pursuant to Article 61. In addition the applicant shall provide one or more specimens or mock-ups of the final presentation(s) of the veterinary medicinal product in at least one of the official languages of the European Union; the mock-up may be provided in black and white and electronically where prior agreement from the competent authority has been obtained. C. DETAILED AND CRITICAL SUMMARIES
In accordance with Article 12(3), detailed and critical summaries shall be provided on the results of pharmaceutical (physico-chemical, biological or microbiological) tests, of the safety tests and residue tests, of the pre-clinical and clinical trials and of the tests assessing the potential risks posed by the veterinary medicinal product for the environment. Each detailed and critical summary shall be prepared in the light of the state of scientific knowledge at the time of submission of the application. It shall contain an evaluation of the various tests and trials, which constitute the marketing authorisation dossier, and shall address all points relevant to the assessment of the quality, safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product.
recital 97
(97) Since the objectives of this Regulation, namely to establish rules on veterinary medicinal products ensuring the protection of human and animal health and the environment as well as the functioning of the internal market, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States, but can rather, by reason of its effects, be better achieved at Union level, the Union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union.

In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives,
recital 83
(83) The implementation of the principle of recognition of veterinary prescriptions should be facilitated by the adoption of a model format for veterinary prescription, listing the essential information necessary to ensure the safe and efficacious use of the medicinal product.

Nothing should prevent Member States from having further elements in their veterinary prescriptions, as long as this does not prevent veterinary prescriptions from other Member States from being recognised.
recital 70
(70) Although inactivated immunological veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 2(3) should be manufactured in accordance with the principles of good manufacturing practice, detailed guidelines of good manufacturing practice should specifically be prepared for those products since they are manufactured in a way that is different from industrially prepared products.

That would preserve their quality without hindering their manufacturing and availability.
recital 71
(71) Companies should hold an authorisation to be able to distribute wholesale veterinary medicinal products and should comply with the principles of good distribution practice, so as to guarantee that such medicinal products are appropriately stored, transported and handled.

It should be the responsibility of the Member States to ensure that those conditions are met. Those authorisations should be valid throughout the Union and should also be required in the case of parallel trade in veterinary medicinal products.
recital 73
(73) The conditions governing the supply of veterinary medicinal products to the public should be harmonised in the Union.

Veterinary medicinal products should only be supplied by persons authorised to do so by the Member State in which they are established. At the same time, in order to improve access to veterinary medicinal products in the Union, retailers that are authorised to supply veterinary medicinal products by the competent authority in the Member State in which they are established should be allowed to sell veterinary medicinal products not subject to a veterinary prescription at a distance to buyers in other Member States. However, taking into account that in some Member States it is current practice to sell at a distance also those veterinary medicinal products which are subject to prescription, Member States should be allowed to continue such practice under certain conditions and within their territory only. In such cases, those Member States should take appropriate measures to avoid unintended consequences of such supply and establish rules on appropriate penalties.
recital 74
(74) Veterinarians should always issue a veterinary prescription when supplying a veterinary medicinal product subject to a veterinary prescription only and not administering it themselves.

Whenever the veterinarians administer such medicinal products themselves it should be left up to national provisions to specify whether a veterinary prescription needs to be issued. However, veterinarians should always keep records of the medicinal products that they have administered.
recital 75
(75) The illegal sale of veterinary medicinal products to the public at a distance may represent a threat to public and animal health, as falsified or substandard medicines may reach the public in this way.

It is necessary to address that threat. Account should be taken of the fact that specific conditions for supply of medicinal products to the public have not been harmonised at Union level and, therefore, Member States can impose conditions for supplying medicinal products to the public within the limits of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
recital 76
(76) When examining the compatibility with Union law of the conditions for the supply of medicinal products, the Court of Justice has recognised, in the context of medicinal products for human use, the very particular nature of medicinal products whose therapeutic effects distinguish them substantially from other goods.

The Court of Justice has also held that health and life of humans rank foremost among the assets and interests protected by the TFEU and that it is for Member States to determine the level of protection which they wish to afford to public health and the way in which that level has to be achieved. Since that level may vary from one Member State to another, Member States are to be allowed some discretion as regards the conditions for the supply on their territory of medicinal products to the public. Member States should be able, therefore, to subject the supply of medicinal products offered for sale at a distance by means of information society services to conditions justified by the protection of public or animal health. Such conditions should not unduly restrict the functioning of the internal market. In that context, Member States should be able to subject the supply of veterinary medicinal products offered for retail to stricter conditions justified by the protection of public or animal health or of environment, provided that those conditions are proportionate to the risk and do not unduly restrict the functioning of the internal market.
recital 77
(77) In order to ensure high standards and safety of the veterinary medicinal products offered for sale at a distance, the public should be assisted in identifying websites which are legally offering such medicinal products.

A common logo should be established, recognisable throughout the Union, while allowing for the identification of the Member State in which the person offering veterinary medicinal products for sale at a distance is established. The Commission should develop the design for such a common logo. Websites offering veterinary medicinal products for sale at a distance to the public should be linked to the website of the competent authority concerned. The websites of the competent authorities of Member States, as well as that of the Agency, should give an explanation of the use of that common logo. All those websites should be linked in order to provide comprehensive information to the public.
recital 78
(78) Collection systems for the disposal of waste veterinary medicinal products should continue to be in place in the Member States in order to control any risk that such products might raise with regard to the protection of human and animal health or the environment.
recital 79
(79) Advertising, even of medicinal products not subject to a veterinary prescription, could affect public and animal health and distort competition.

Therefore, advertising of veterinary medicinal products should meet certain criteria. Persons qualified to prescribe or supply veterinary medicinal products can properly evaluate the information available in advertising because of their knowledge, training and experience in animal health. The advertising of veterinary medicinal products to persons who cannot properly assess the risk associated with their use may lead to medicinal product misuse or overconsumption which is liable to harm public or animal health, or the environment. However, in order to preserve the animal health status in their territory, Member States should be able under restricted conditions to allow advertising of immunological veterinary medicinal products also to professional animal keepers.
recital 80
(80) With regard to the advertising of veterinary medicinal products, Member States' experience has shown that it is necessary to put emphasis on the distinction between feed and biocidal products, on the one hand, and veterinary medicinal products, on the other, because that distinction is often misrepresented in advertising.
recital 81
(81) The rules of advertisement in this Regulation are to be seen as specific rules that complement the general rules in Directive 2006/114/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (11).
recital 82
(82) Where medicinal products are authorised within a Member State and have been prescribed in that Member State by a veterinarian for an individual animal or group of animals, it should in principle be possible for that veterinary prescription to be recognised and for the medicinal product to be dispensed in another Member State.

The removal of regulatory and administrative barriers to such recognition should not affect any professional or ethical duty for veterinarians to refuse to dispense the medicinal product stated in the prescription.
recital 84
(84) Information on veterinary medicinal products is essential in order to enable health professionals, authorities and companies make informed decisions.

A key aspect is the creation of a Union database that should collate information on marketing authorisations granted in the Union. That database should enhance overall transparency, streamline and facilitate the flow of information between authorities, and prevent multiple reporting requirements.
recital 85
(85) The verification of compliance with the legal requirements through controls is of fundamental importance to ensure that the objectives of this Regulation are effectively achieved across the Union.

Therefore, the competent authorities of the Member States should have the power to perform inspections at all stages of production, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products. In order to preserve the effectiveness of the inspections, the competent authorities should have the possibility to perform unannounced inspections.
recital 86
(86) The frequency of controls should be established by the competent authorities having regard to the risk and to the level of compliance expected in the different situations.

That approach should allow those competent authorities to allocate resources where the risk is the highest. In some cases, however, controls should be performed irrespective of the level of risk or expected non-compliance, for example prior to granting manufacturing authorisations.
recital 87
(87) In certain cases, failures in Member States' control system can substantially hinder the achievement of the objectives of this Regulation and may lead to the emergence of risks to public and animal health and the environment.

To ensure a harmonised approach to controls throughout the Union, the Commission should be able to carry out audits in the Member States to verify the functioning of national control systems. Those audits should be carried out so as to avoid any unnecessary administrative burden and, as far as possible, be coordinated with Member States and with any other Commission audits to be carried out under Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council (12).
recital 88
(88) In order to ensure transparency, impartiality and consistency in the level of enforcement activities by Member States, it is necessary for Member States to set up an appropriate framework for penalties with a view to imposing effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties for non-compliance with this Regulation, as non-compliance can result in damage to public and animal health and the environment.
recital 89
(89) Companies and authorities are frequently confronted with the need to distinguish between veterinary medicinal products, feed additives, biocidal products and other products.

In order to avoid inconsistencies in the treatment of such products, to increase legal certainty, and to facilitate the decision-making process by Member States, a coordination group of Member States should be established, and among other tasks it should provide on a case-by-case basis a recommendation as to whether a product falls within the definition of a veterinary medicinal product. In order to ensure legal certainty, the Commission may decide whether a specific product is a veterinary medicinal product.
recital 90
(90) Having regard to the special characteristics of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products, especially the constituents of those products, it is desirable to establish a special, simplified registration procedure and to provide specific provisions for package leaflets for certain homeopathic veterinary medicinal products which are placed on the market without indications.

The quality aspect of homeopathic medicinal products is independent of their use, so no specific provisions should apply to such products with regard to the necessary quality requirements and rules. Moreover, while the use of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products authorised under this Regulation is regulated in the same way as other authorised veterinary medicinal products, it does not regulate the use of registered homeopathic veterinary medicinal products. The use of such registered homeopathic veterinary medicinal products is therefore subject to national law which is also the case as regards homeopathic medicinal products registered in accordance with Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (13).
recital 91
(91) In order to protect public and animal health and the environment, the activities, services and tasks attributed to the Agency in this Regulation should be adequately funded.

Those activities, services and tasks should be funded through fees charged by the Agency to undertakings. Those fees, however, should not affect the right of Member States to charge fees for activities and tasks carried out at national level.
recital 92
(92) It is generally accepted that the existing requirements regarding the technical documentation on the quality, safety and efficacy of veterinary medicinal products presented when applying for a marketing authorisation in Annex I to Directive 2001/82/EC as last amended by Commission Directive 2009/9/EC (14) work sufficiently well in practice.

There is no urgent need, therefore, to substantially change those requirements. However, there is a need to adjust those requirements in order to respond to the identified discrepancies with the international scientific progress or latest developments, including guidance from VICH, WHO, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) standards, and taking into account also the need to develop specific requirements for novel therapy veterinary medicinal products while avoiding major overhaul of the current provisions, in particular not altering their structure.
recital 93
(93) In order to, inter alia, adapt this Regulation to the scientific developments of the sector, to exercise the supervisory powers of the Commission effectively, and to introduce harmonised standards within the Union, the power to adopt acts in accordance with Article 290 TFEU should be delegated to the Commission in respect of establishing the criteria for the designation of the antimicrobials which are to be reserved for treatment of certain infections in humans; establishing the requirements for collection of data as regards the antimicrobial medicinal products, rules on the methods of collection and quality assurance; establishing the rules to ensure the effective and safe use of veterinary medicinal products authorised and prescribed for oral administration via routes other than medicated feed; providing details on content and format of the information as regards equine species in the single lifetime identification document; amending the rules on withdrawal period in the light of new scientific evidence; providing the necessary detailed rules on the application, by operators in third countries, of the provisions on the prohibition of the use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals for the purpose of promoting growth or increase yield and the prohibition of the use of designated antimicrobials; laying down the procedure for the imposition of fines or periodic penalty payments as well as the conditions and methods for their collection;

and amending Annex II in order to (i) adapt the requirements regarding the technical documentation on the quality, safety and efficacy of veterinary medicinal products to technical and scientific progress and (ii) achieve a sufficient level of detail that ensures legal certainty and harmonisation as well as any necessary updating. It is of particular importance that the Commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level, and that those consultations be conducted in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making (15). In particular, to ensure equal participation in the preparation of delegated acts, the European Parliament and the Council receive all documents at the same time as Member States' experts, and their experts systematically have access to meetings of Commission expert groups dealing with the preparation of delegated acts.
recital 94
(94) In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this Regulation, implementing powers should be conferred on the Commission.

Those powers should be exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (16).
recital 95
(95) When providing services in another Member State, veterinarians should follow any national rules present in the host Member State pursuant to Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (17) and Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (18).
recital 96
(96) Taking into account the main changes that should be made to the existing rules, and aiming to improve the functioning of the internal market, a regulation is the appropriate legal instrument to replace Directive 2001/82/EC in order to lay down clear, detailed and directly applicable rules.

Moreover, a regulation ensures that legal requirements are implemented at the same time and in a harmonised manner throughout the Union.
Article 147 - Exercise of the delegation
1. The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article.

2. The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Articles 37(4), 57(3), 106(6), 109(1), 115(3), 118(2), 136(7) and 146(1) and (2) shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of five years from 27 January 2019. The Commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period. The delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for the periods of an identical duration, unless the European Parliament or the Council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period. 3. The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Article 146(2) shall be conferred on the Commission for a period from 27 January 2019 until 28 January 2022. 4. The delegation of power referred to in Articles 37(4), 57(3), 106(6), 109(1), 115(3), 118(2), 136(7) and 146(1) and (2) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force. 5. Before adopting a delegated act, the Commission shall consult experts designated by each Member State in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law Making. 6. As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council. 7. A delegated act adopted pursuant to Articles 37(4), 57(3), 106(6), 109(1), 115(3), 118(2), 136(7) and 146(1) and (2) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or the Council within a period of two months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by two months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the Council.
LIST OF THE OBLIGATIONS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 136(1)
ANNEX III
LIST OF THE OBLIGATIONS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 136(1) 
(1) the obligation, as an applicant, to provide accurate information and documentation as referred to in Article 6(4);

(2) the obligation to provide, in an application submitted in accordance with Article 62, the data referred to in point (b) of paragraph 2 of that Article; (3) the obligation to comply with the conditions referred to in Articles 23 and 25; (4) the obligation to comply with conditions included in the marketing authorisation of the veterinary medicinal product, as referred to in Article 36(1); (5) the obligation to introduce any necessary variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation to take account of technical and scientific progress and enable the veterinary medicinal products to be manufactured and checked by means of generally accepted scientific methods, as provided for in Article 58(3); (6) the obligation to keep up to date the summary of product characteristics, package leaflet and labelling with current scientific knowledge, as provided for in Article 58(4); (7) the obligation to record in the product database the dates when its authorised veterinary medicinal products are placed on the market and information on the availability for each veterinary medicinal product in each relevant Member State and, as applicable, the dates of any suspension or revocation of the marketing authorisations concerned, as well as data relating to the volume of sales of the medicinal product, as provided in Article 58(6) and (11) respectively; (8) the obligation to provide within the time limit set at the request of a competent authority or the Agency any data demonstrating that the benefit-risk balance remains positive, as provided for in Article 58(9); (9) the obligation to supply any new information which may entail a variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation, to notify any prohibition or restriction imposed by the competent authorities of any country in which the veterinary medicinal product is marketed, or to supply any information that may influence the evaluation of the risks and benefits of the medicinal product, as provided for in Article 58(10); (10) the obligation to place the veterinary medicinal product on the market in accordance with the content of the summary of the product characteristics and the labelling and package leaflet as contained in the marketing authorisation; (11) the obligation to record and report suspected adverse events for their veterinary medicinal products, in accordance with Article 76(2); (12) the obligation to collect specific pharmacovigilance data additional to the data listed in Article 73(2) and to carry out post-marketing surveillance studies in accordance with Article 76(3); (13) the obligation to ensure that public announcements relating to information on pharmacovigilance concerns are presented objectively and are not misleading and to notify them to the Agency, as provided for in Article 77(11); (14) the obligation to operate a pharmacovigilance system for the fulfilment of pharmacovigilance tasks, including maintenance of a pharmacovigilance system master file in accordance with Article 77; (15) the obligation to submit, at the request of the Agency, a copy of its pharmacovigilance system master file(s), as provided for in Article 79(6); (16) the obligation to carry out signal management process and to record the results and outcomes of that process in accordance with Article 81(1) and (2); (17) the obligation to provide to the Agency all available information relating to the Union interest referral, as referred to in Article 82(3).
Article 145 - Standing Committee on Veterinary Medicinal Products
1. The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee on Veterinary Medicinal Products ('the Standing Committee').

The Standing Committee shall be a committee within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply.
Article 146 - Amendments to Annex II
1.

The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 147(2) in order to amend Annex II by adapting the requirements regarding the technical documentation on the quality, safety and efficacy of veterinary medicinal products to technical and scientific progress. 2. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 147(3) amending Annex II in order to achieve a sufficient level of detail that ensures legal certainty and harmonisation as well as any necessary updating, while avoiding unnecessary disruption with Annex II, including as regards the introduction of specific requirements for novel therapy veterinary medicinal products. When adopting those delegated acts, the Commission shall have due regard to animal and public health and environmental considerations.
Article 148 - Data protection
1. Member States shall apply Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council (28) to the processing of personal data carried out in the Member States pursuant to this Regulation.

2. Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council (29) shall apply to the processing of personal data carried out by the Commission and the Agency pursuant to this Regulation.
(1) 'veterinary medicinal product' means any substance or combination of substances which fulfils at least one of the following conditions: (a) it is presented as having properties for treating or preventing disease in animals; (b) its purpose is to be used in, or administered to, animals with a view to restoring, correcting or modifying physiological functions by exerting a pharmacological, immunological or metabolic action; (c) its purpose is to be used in animals with a view to making a medical diagnosis; (d) its purpose is to be used for euthanasia of animals;
recital 72
(72) In order to ensure transparency, a database should be established at Union level for the purpose of publishing a list of wholesale distributors who have been found to comply with applicable Union legislation following an inspection by the competent authorities of a Member State.
recital 5
(5) This Regulation aims to reduce the administrative burden, enhance the internal market and increase the availability of veterinary medicinal products, while guaranteeing the highest level of public and animal health and environmental protection.
recital 3
(3) The regulatory framework for veterinary medicinal products should take into account the needs of the businesses in the veterinary pharmaceutical sector and trade in veterinary medicinal products within the Union.

It should also integrate the major policy objectives set out in the Communication from the Commission of 3 March 2010 entitled 'Europe 2020 A Strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth'.
recital 4
(4) Experience has shown that the needs of the veterinary sector differ substantially from those of the human sector in relation to medicinal products.

In particular, the drivers for investment in markets for medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products are different. For example, in the veterinary sector there are many different animal species, which creates both a fragmented market and the need for major investments in order to extend the authorisation of veterinary medicinal products existing for one animal species to another. Moreover, the price-setting mechanisms in the veterinary sector follow a completely different logic. Consequently, prices for veterinary medicinal products are typically substantially lower than for medicinal products for human use. The size of the animal pharmaceutical industry is only a small fraction of the size of the pharmaceutical industry for medicinal products for human use. It is therefore appropriate to develop a regulatory framework addressing the characteristics and specificities of the veterinary sector, which cannot be considered as a model for the market for medicinal products for human use.
recital 6
(6) The identification of packs of veterinary medicinal products via identification codes is common practice in several Member States.

Those Member States have developed integrated electronic systems at national level for the proper functioning of such codes, linked to national databases. The introduction of a harmonised Union-wide system has not been the subject of any assessment as to costs and administrative consequences. Instead, there should be a possibility for Member States to decide at national level on whether or not to adopt a system for identification codes to be added to the information on the outer packaging of the veterinary medicinal products.
recital 7
(7) However, the existing systems for identification codes currently used at national level vary and there is no standard format.

The possibility should be provided for the development of a harmonised identification code for which the Commission should adopt uniform rules. The adoption by the Commission of rules concerning such an identification code would not prevent Member States from being able to choose whether or not to use such an identification code.
recital 8
(8) In spite of the measures that farmers and other operators are obliged to take on the basis of rules adopted at Union level regarding health of kept animals, good animal husbandry, good hygiene, feed, management and biosecurity, animals can suffer from a broad range of diseases which need to be prevented or treated by veterinary medicinal products for both animal health and welfare reasons.

The impact of animal diseases and the measures necessary to control them can be devastating for individual animals, animal populations, animal keepers and the economy. Animal diseases transmissible to humans can also have a significant impact on public health. Therefore sufficient and effective veterinary medicinal products should be available in the Union in order to ensure high standards of public and animal health, and for the development of the agriculture and aquaculture sectors.
recital 9
(9) This Regulation should set high standards of quality, safety and efficacy for veterinary medicinal products in order to meet common concerns as regards the protection of public and animal health and of the environment.

At the same time, this Regulation should harmonise the rules for the authorisation of veterinary medicinal products and the placing of them on the Union market.
recital 10
(10) This Regulation should not apply to veterinary medicinal products which have not undergone an industrial process such as, for example, non-processed blood.
recital 11
(11) Antiparasitics include also substances with repelling activity that are presented for use as veterinary medicinal products.
recital 12
(12) There is insufficient information to date on traditional herbal products used to treat animals in order to allow the setting up of a simplified system.

Therefore, the possibility of introducing such a simplified system should be examined by the Commission based on the information provided by the Member States on the use of such products on their territory.
recital 13
(13) This Regulation applies to veterinary medicinal products, including those products which Directive 2001/82/EC referred to as 'pre-mixes' and which in this Regulation are considered to be a pharmaceutical form of a veterinary medicinal product, until such time as those products are included in medicated feed or intermediate products, after which Regulation (EU) 2019/4 of the European Parliament and of the Council (5) applies to the exclusion of this Regulation.
recital 14
(14) To ensure the proper administration and appropriate dosing of certain veterinary medicinal products which are to be administered orally in feed or drinking water to animals, especially in the case of treatment of groups of animals, such administration should be properly described in the product information.

Additional instructions for cleaning the equipment used for administration of those products should be set out to avoid cross-contamination and reduce antimicrobial resistance. In order to improve the effective and safe use of veterinary medicinal products authorised and prescribed for oral administration via routes other than medicated feed, such as mixing of water for drinking with a veterinary medicinal product or manual mixing of a veterinary medicinal product into feed and administered by the animal keeper to food-producing animals, the Commission should, where necessary, adopt delegated acts. The Commission should take into account scientific recommendations of the European Medicines Agency, established by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ('the Agency'), for example concerning measures to minimise over-dosage or under-dosage, unintended administration to non-target animals, the risk of cross-contamination and dissemination of those products in the environment.
recital 15
(15) With a view to harmonising the internal market for veterinary medicinal products in the Union and improving their free movement, rules should be established concerning the procedures for authorisation of such products that ensure the same conditions for all applications and a transparent framework for all interested parties.
recital 16
(16) The scope of the mandatory use of a centralised authorisation procedure under which the authorisations are valid throughout the Union should cover, inter alia, products containing new active substances and products which contain or consist of engineered tissues or cells, including novel therapy veterinary medicinal products with the exclusion of blood components, such as plasma, platelet concentrates or red cells.

At the same time, in order to ensure the widest possible availability of veterinary medicinal products in the Union, the access of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to the centralised authorisation procedure should be facilitated by all appropriate means, and its use should be extended to allow for applications for authorisations under that procedure to be submitted for any veterinary medicinal product, including for generics of nationally authorised veterinary medicinal products.
recital 69
(69) In order to ensure the uniform application of principles of good manufacturing practice and good distribution practice, the compilation of Union procedures for inspections and exchange of information should serve as a basis for competent authorities when performing controls on manufacturers and wholesale distributors.
recital 18
(18) The national procedure for authorising veterinary medicinal products should be maintained because of varying needs in different geographical areas of the Union as well as the business models of SMEs.

It should be ensured that marketing authorisations granted in one Member State are recognised in other Member States.
recital 17
(17) The replacement or the addition of a new antigen or a new strain in the case of already authorised immunological veterinary medicinal products against, for example, avian influenza, bluetongue, foot and mouth disease or equine influenza should not be considered as adding a new active substance.
recital 56
(56) Environmental incidents that are observed following the administration of a veterinary medicinal product to an animal should also be reported as suspected adverse events.

Such incidents may consist, for example, in a significant increase of soil contamination by a substance to levels considered harmful for the environment or in high concentrations of veterinary medicinal products in drinking water produced from surface water.
recital 43
(43) The combined use of several antimicrobial active substances may represent a particular risk with respect to the development of antimicrobial resistance.

Such combined use should be taken into account, therefore, when assessing whether to authorise a veterinary medicinal product.
recital 44
(44) The development of new antimicrobials has not kept pace with the increase of resistance to existing antimicrobials.

Given the limited innovation in developing new antimicrobials, it is essential that the efficacy of existing antimicrobials be maintained for as long as possible. The use of antimicrobials in medicinal products that are used in animals may accelerate the emergence and spread of resistant micro-organisms and may compromise the effective use of the already limited number of existing antimicrobials to treat human infections. Therefore, the misuse of antimicrobials should not be allowed. Antimicrobial medicinal products should not be used for prophylaxis other than in well-defined cases for the administration to an individual animal or restricted number of animals when the risk for infection is very high or its consequences are likely to be severe. Antibiotic medicinal products should not be used for prophylaxis other than in exceptional cases only for the administration to an individual animal. Antimicrobial medicinal products should be used for metaphylaxis only when the risk of spread of an infection or of an infectious disease in a group of animals is high and where no appropriate alternatives are available. Such restrictions should allow the decrease of prophylactic and metaphylactic use in animals towards representing a smaller proportion of the total use of antimicrobials in animals.
recital 19
(19) In order to help applicants, and in particular SMEs, to comply with the requirements of this Regulation, Member States should provide advice to the applicants.

That advice should be provided in addition to the operational guidance documents and other advice and assistance provided by the Agency.
recital 46
(46) In order to preserve as long as possible the efficacy of certain antimicrobials in the treatment of infections in humans, it may be necessary to reserve those antimicrobials for humans only.

It should be possible, therefore, to decide that certain antimicrobials, following the scientific recommendations of the Agency, should not be available on the market in the veterinary sector. When making such decisions on antimicrobials, the Commission should also take into account available recommendations on the matter provided for by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and other relevant Union agencies, which in turn also take into account any relevant recommendations from international organisations, such as the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), and the Codex Alimentarius.
recital 47
(47) If an antimicrobial is administered or used incorrectly, this presents a risk to public or animal health.

Therefore, antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products should only be available on veterinary prescription. Veterinarians have a key role in ensuring prudent use of antimicrobials and consequently they should prescribe the antimicrobial medicinal products based on their knowledge of antimicrobial resistance, their epidemiological and clinical knowledge and their understanding of the risk factors for the individual animal or group of animals. In addition, the veterinarians should respect their professional code of conduct. Veterinarians should ensure that they are not in a situation of conflict of interest when prescribing medicinal products, while recognising their legitimate activity of retail in accordance with national law. In particular, veterinarians should not to be influenced, directly or indirectly, by economic incentives when prescribing those medicinal products. Furthermore, the supply of veterinary medicinal products by veterinarians should be restricted to the amount required for treatment of the animals under their care.
recital 48
(48) The prudent use of antimicrobials is a cornerstone in addressing antimicrobial resistance.

All the stakeholders concerned should together promote prudent use of antimicrobials. It is therefore important that guidance on the prudent use of antimicrobials in veterinary medicine be taken into account and further elaborated. The identification of risk factors and the development of criteria for the initiation of administration of antimicrobials, as well as the identification of alternative measures, could help in avoiding the unnecessary use of antimicrobial medicinal products, including through metaphylaxis. In addition, Member States should be allowed to take further restrictive measures to implement national policy on the prudent use of antimicrobials, provided that those measures do not unduly restrict the functioning of the internal market.
recital 49
(49) It is important to consider the international dimension of the development of antimicrobial resistance when assessing the benefit-risk balance of certain veterinary antimicrobials in the Union.

Antimicrobial resistant organisms can spread to humans and animals in the Union and third countries through consumption of products of animal origin from the Union or from third countries, from direct contact with animals or humans or by other means. Therefore, measures restricting the use of veterinary antimicrobials in the Union should be based on scientific advice and should be considered in the context of cooperation with third countries and international organisations. For those reasons, it should also be ensured, in a non-discriminatory and proportionate manner, that operators in third countries respect certain basic conditions relating to antimicrobial resistance for animals and products of animal origin exported to the Union. Any such action should respect Union obligations under relevant international agreements. This should contribute to the international fight against antimicrobial resistance, in particular in line with the WHO Global Action Plan and the OIE Strategy on Antimicrobial Resistance and the Prudent Use of Antimicrobials.
recital 50
(50) There is still a lack of sufficiently detailed and comparable data at Union level to determine the trends and identify possible risk factors that could lead to the development of measures to limit the risk from antimicrobial resistance and to monitor the effect of measures already introduced.

It is therefore important to continue the collection of such data and further develop it in line with a stepwise approach. That data, when available, should be analysed with data on the use of antimicrobials in humans and data on antimicrobial resistant organisms found in animals, humans and food. To ensure that the data collected can be used effectively, appropriate technical rules should be laid down concerning the collection and the exchange of data. The Member States should be responsible for collecting data on the sales and use of antimicrobials used in animals under the coordination of the Agency. It should be possible to make further adjustments to the obligations on data collection when the procedures in the Member States for the collection of data on sales and use of antimicrobials are sufficiently reliable.
recital 51
(51) The majority of the veterinary medicinal products on the market have been authorised under national procedures.

The lack of harmonisation of summary of product characteristics for veterinary medicinal products authorised nationally in more than one Member State creates additional and unnecessary barriers for the circulation of veterinary medicinal products within the Union. It is necessary to harmonise those summaries of product characteristics at least in regard to dosage, uses and warnings of the veterinary medicinal products.
recital 52
(52) In order to reduce administrative burden and maximise the availability of veterinary medicinal products in the Member States, simplified rules should be laid down as to how their packaging and labelling are to be presented.

The textual information provided should be reduced and, if possible, pictograms and abbreviations could be developed and used as an alternative to such textual information. Pictograms and abbreviations should be standardised across the Union. Care should be taken so that those rules do not jeopardise public or animal health or environmental safety.
recital 53
(53) In addition, Member States should be able to choose the language of the text used in the summary of product characteristics, labelling and package leaflet of veterinary medicinal products authorised in their territory.
recital 54
(54) With a view to increasing availability of veterinary medicinal products in the Union, it should be possible to grant more than one marketing authorisation for a specific veterinary medicinal product to the same marketing authorisation holder in the same Member State.

In that case, all product-related characteristics of the veterinary medicinal product and data in support of the applications for the veterinary medicinal product should be identical. However, multiple applications for a specific veterinary medicinal product should not be used to circumvent the principles of mutual recognition, and therefore this type of applications in different Member States should take place within the procedural framework for mutual recognition.
recital 55
(55) Pharmacovigilance rules are necessary for the protection of public and animal health and of the environment.

Collection of information on suspected adverse events should contribute to the good usage of veterinary medicinal products.
recital 45
(45) In order to strengthen Member States' national policies on the prudent use of antimicrobials, especially those antimicrobials which are important for the treatment of infections in humans, but which are also necessary for the use in the veterinary medicine, it may be necessary to restrict or prohibit their use.

Member States should be allowed, therefore, following scientific recommendations, to define restrictive conditions for their use, for example conditioning their prescription to the realisation of antimicrobial susceptibility testing to ensure that there is no other antimicrobials available that are sufficiently effective or appropriate to treat diagnosed disease.
recital 57
(57) The competent authorities, the Agency and marketing authorisation holders should encourage and facilitate the reporting of suspected adverse events, in particular by veterinarians and other health care professionals, where such events occur during the conduct of their duties, as well as facilitate that veterinarians receive appropriate feedback on reporting made.
recital 58
(58) In the light of experience, it has become clear that it is necessary to take measures to improve the operation of the pharmacovigilance system.

That system should integrate and monitor data at Union level. It is in the interest of the Union to ensure that the veterinary pharmacovigilance systems for all authorised veterinary medicinal products are consistent. At the same time, it is necessary to take account of changes arising as a result of international harmonisation of definitions, terminology and technological developments in the field of pharmacovigilance.
recital 59
(59) Holders of marketing authorisations should be responsible for continuously carrying out pharmacovigilance in order to ensure the continuous evaluation of the benefit-risk balance of the veterinary medicinal products they place on the market.

They should collect reports on suspected adverse events relating to their veterinary medicinal products, including those concerning use outside the terms of the granted marketing authorisation.
recital 60
(60) It is necessary to increase the shared use of resources among authorities and to enhance efficiency of the pharmacovigilance system.

Data collected should be uploaded to a single reporting point to ensure that the information is shared. The competent authorities should use those data to ensure the continuous assessment of the benefit-risk balance of the veterinary medicinal products that are on the market.
recital 61
(61) In specific cases, or from a public or animal health or environment perspective, it is necessary to complement the safety and efficacy data available at the time of authorisation with additional information following the placing of the veterinary medicinal product on the market.

It should be possible, therefore, to impose the obligation to conduct post-authorisation studies on the marketing authorisation holder.
recital 62
(62) A pharmacovigilance database at Union level should be established to record and integrate information of suspected adverse events for all veterinary medicinal products authorised in the Union.

That database should improve detection of suspected adverse events and should allow and facilitate the pharmacovigilance surveillance and work-sharing between the competent authorities. That database should include mechanisms for exchanging data with the existing national pharmacovigilance databases.
recital 63
(63) The procedures that competent authorities and the Agency will adopt in order to evaluate the information on suspected adverse events that they receive should comply with the measures on good pharmacovigilance practice which should be adopted by the Commission and, as appropriate, be based on a common standard derived from the current Commission guidelines on pharmacovigilance for veterinary medicinal products.

The evaluation performed by the competent authority or the Agency in that way may be one of the means by which it is determined whether there is any change to the benefit-risk balance of those veterinary medicinal products. It is, however, emphasised that the signal management process is the 'gold standard' for that purpose and proper attention should be given to it. That signal management process consists of tasks of signal detection, validation, confirmation, analysis and prioritisation, assessment and recommendation for action.
recital 64
(64) It is necessary to exercise control over the entire chain of distribution of veterinary medicinal products, from manufacture or import into the Union through supply to the end-user.

Veterinary medicinal products from third countries should comply with the same requirements which apply to veterinary medicinal products manufactured in the Union, or with requirements which are recognised to be at least equivalent thereto.
recital 65
(65) The parallel trade in veterinary medicinal products concerns veterinary medicinal products traded from one Member State to another and is distinct from imports in that the latter are products coming from third countries into the Union.

The parallel trade in veterinary medicinal products authorised under national, decentralised, mutual recognition or subsequent recognition procedure should be regulated to ensure that the principles of the free movement of goods are restricted only for the purpose of safeguarding public and animal health in a harmonised manner, and respecting the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union ('the Court of Justice'). Any administrative procedures put in place in that context should not introduce an excessive burden. In particular, any approval of a licence for such parallel trade should be based on a simplified procedure.
recital 66
(66) In order to facilitate the movement of veterinary medicinal products and to prevent checks carried out in one Member State being repeated in others, minimum requirements should be applied to veterinary medicinal products manufactured in, or imported from, third countries.
recital 67
(67) The quality of veterinary medicinal products manufactured within the Union should be guaranteed by requiring compliance with the principles of good manufacturing practice for medicinal products irrespective of their final destination.
recital 68
(68) The good manufacturing practice for the purpose of this Regulation should take into account the Union and international standards of animal welfare when active substances are prepared from animals.

Measures to prevent or minimise discharge of active substances into the environment should be also taken into account. Any such measures should only be adopted following an evaluation of their impact.
recital 34
(34) Certain particulars and documents that are normally to be submitted with an application for a marketing authorisation should not be required if a veterinary medicinal product is a generic medicinal product of a veterinary medicinal product that is authorised or has been authorised in the Union.
recital 25
(25) There may be, however, situations where no suitable authorised veterinary medicinal product is available.

In those situations, by way of exception, veterinarians should be allowed to prescribe other medicinal products to the animals under their responsibility in conformity with strict rules and only in the interest of animal health or animal welfare. In the case of food-producing animals, veterinarians should ensure that an appropriate withdrawal period is prescribed, so that harmful residues of those medicinal products do not enter the food chain, and particular care should therefore be taken when administering antimicrobials.
recital 26
(26) Member States should be able to allow the exceptional use of veterinary medicinal products without a marketing authorisation where it is necessary to respond to Union-listed diseases or emerging diseases and where the health situation in a Member State so requires.
recital 24
(24) Where a veterinary medicinal product is intended for food-producing animal species, a marketing authorisation should only be granted if the pharmacologically active substances which the product contains are allowed in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 470/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (6) and any acts adopted on the basis thereof for the animal species for which the veterinary medicinal product is intended.
recital 27
(27) Taking into account the need for simple rules on changes to the marketing authorisations of veterinary medicinal products, only changes that can affect public or animal health or the environment should require a scientific assessment.
recital 28
(28) Directive 2010/63/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (7) lays down provisions on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes based on the principles of replacement, reduction and refinement.

Clinical trials for veterinary medicinal products are exempted from the scope of that Directive. The design and performance of clinical trials, which provide essential information on the safety and efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product, should take into account those principles of replacement, reduction and refinement, where they concern the care and use of live animals for scientific purposes, and should be optimised in order to provide the most satisfactory results whilst using the minimum number of animals. The procedures of such clinical trials should be designed to avoid causing pain, suffering or distress to animals and should take into account the principles laid down in Directive 2010/63/EU, including the use of alternative test methods wherever possible, and the guidelines of the International Cooperation on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Veterinary Medicinal Products ('VICH').
recital 29
(29) It is recognised that improved access to information contributes to public awareness, gives the public the opportunity to express its observations and enables authorities to take due account of those observations.

The general public should therefore have access to information in the product database, the pharmacovigilance database and the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database, after the deletion of any commercially confidential information by the competent authority. Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (8) gives the fullest possible effect to the right of public access to documents and lays down the general principles and limits on such access. The Agency should therefore give the widest possible access to the documents while carefully balancing the right for information with existing data protection requirements. Certain public and private interests, such as personal data and commercially confidential information, should be protected by way of exceptions in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001.
recital 30
(30) Companies have less interest in developing veterinary medicinal products for markets of a limited size.

In order to promote the availability of veterinary medicinal products within the Union for those markets, in some cases it should be possible to grant marketing authorisations without a complete application dossier having been submitted, on the basis of a benefit-risk assessment of the situation and, where necessary, subject to specific obligations. In particular, the grant of such marketing authorisations should be possible in the case of veterinary medicinal products for use in minor species or for the treatment or prevention of diseases that occur infrequently or in limited geographical areas.
recital 31
(31) For all new applications for a marketing authorisation, environmental risk assessments should be mandatory and should consist of two phases.

In the first phase the extent of environmental exposure to the product, its active substances and other constituent should be estimated, while in the second phase the effects of the active residue should be assessed.
recital 42
(42) It is necessary to mitigate the risk of development of antimicrobial resistance to medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products.

Therefore, an application for an antimicrobial veterinary medicinal product should contain information about the potential risks that use of that medicinal product may lead to the development of antimicrobial resistance in humans or animals or in organisms associated with them. In order to ensure a high level of public and animal health, antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products should only be authorised following a careful scientific benefit-risk assessment. If necessary, conditions should be laid down in the marketing authorisation in order to restrict the use of the veterinary medicinal product. Such conditions should include restrictions on the use of the veterinary medicinal product that is not in accordance with the terms of the marketing authorisation, in particular with the summary of product characteristics.
recital 32
(32) Where there is concern that a pharmaceutical substance could pose serious risk to the environment, it may be appropriate to examine that substance in the context of Union environmental legislation.

In particular, under Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (9), it may be appropriate to identify whether that substance is a substance for inclusion in the surface water watch list, in order to gather monitoring data on it. It may be appropriate to include it in the list of priority substances and to set an environmental quality standard for it, as well as to identify measures to reduce its emissions to the environment. Those measures could include measures to reduce emissions from manufacturing by following Best Available Techniques (BAT) under Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (10), particularly if the emission of active pharmaceutical ingredients have been identified as a key environmental issue during the drafting or revision of relevant Best Available Technique Reference Documents (BREFs) and their accompanying BAT conclusions.
recital 33
(33) Tests, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials represent a major investment for companies which they need to make in order to submit the necessary data with the application for a marketing authorisation or to establish a maximum residue limit for pharmacologically active substances of the veterinary medicinal product.

That investment should be protected in order to stimulate research and innovation, in particular on veterinary medicinal products for minor species and antimicrobials, so that it is ensured that the necessary veterinary medicinal products are available in the Union. For that reason, data submitted to a competent authority or the Agency should be protected against use by other applicants. That protection, however, should be limited in time in order to allow for competition. Similar protection of investments should be applied to studies supporting a new pharmaceutical form, administration route or dosage that reduces the antimicrobial or antiparasitic resistance or improves the benefit-risk balance.
recital 35
(35) It is recognised that the potential effect of a product on the environment may depend on the volume used and the resulting amount of the pharmaceutical substance that may reach the environment.

Therefore, where there is evidence that a constituent of a medicinal product, for which an application for a marketing authorisation for a generic veterinary medicinal product has been submitted, is a hazard for the environment, it is appropriate to require data on the potential effect on the environment in order to protect the environment. In such cases, applicants should endeavour to join efforts in generating such data in order to reduce costs and to reduce testing on vertebrate animals. The establishment of a single Union assessment of the environmental properties of active substances for veterinary use by means of an active substance-based review ('monograph') system could be a potential alternative. The Commission should therefore submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council which examines the feasibility of such a monograph system and other potential alternatives for environmental risk assessment of veterinary medicinal products, accompanied, if appropriate, by a legislative proposal.
recital 36
(36) The protection of technical documentation should be applied to new veterinary medicinal products, as well as to data developed for supporting innovations of products with or referring to an existing marketing authorisation.

In that case, the variation or marketing authorisation application may refer partly to data submitted in a former marketing authorisation or variation applications, and should include new data specifically developed to support the required innovation of the existing product.
recital 37
(37) Differences in the manufacturing process of biological products or a change in the excipient used may lead to differences in the generic product characteristics.

In an application for a marketing authorisation for a generic biological veterinary medicinal product, the bioequivalence should therefore be demonstrated in order to ensure, based on the existing knowledge, that quality, safety and efficacy are similar.
recital 38
(38) In order to avoid unnecessary administrative and financial burdens both for the competent authorities and for the pharmaceutical industry, as a general rule a marketing authorisation for a veterinary medicinal product should be granted for an unlimited period of time.

Conditions for renewing the approval of a marketing authorisation should be imposed only exceptionally and should be duly justified.
recital 23
(23) No veterinary medicinal product should be allowed to be placed on the market in the Union unless it has been authorised, and its quality, safety and efficacy have been demonstrated.
recital 22
(22) Where a Member State, the Commission or the marketing authorisation holder considers that there are reasons to believe that a veterinary medicinal product could present a potential serious risk to human or animal health or to the environment, a scientific evaluation of the product should be undertaken at Union level, leading to a single decision on the area of disagreement, binding on the relevant Member States, and taken on the basis of an overall benefit-risk assessment.
recital 39
(39) It is recognised that, in some cases, a scientific risk assessment alone cannot provide all the information on which a risk management decision should be based, and other relevant factors, including societal, economical, ethical, environmental and welfare factors and the feasibility of controls, should also be taken into account.
recital 40
(40) In certain circumstances where a significant public or animal health concern exists but scientific uncertainty persists, appropriate measures can be adopted taking into account Article 5(7) of the WTO Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures which has been interpreted for the Union in the communication from the Commission of 2 February 2000 on the precautionary principle.

In such circumstances, Member States or the Commission should seek to obtain additional information necessary for a more objective assessment of the particular concern and should review the measure accordingly within a reasonable period of time.
recital 21
(21) Moreover, rules should be established under the mutual recognition procedure to resolve any disagreements between competent authorities in a coordination group for mutual recognition and decentralised procedures for veterinary medicinal products ('the coordination group') without undue delay.

This Regulation also lays down new tasks for the coordination group, including the drawing up an annual list of reference veterinary medicinal products which are to be subject to harmonisation of the summary of product characteristics, the issuing of recommendations on pharmacovigilance and its involvement in the signal management process.
recital 41
(41) Antimicrobial resistance to medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products is a growing health problem in the Union and worldwide.

Due to the complexity of the problem, its cross-border dimension and the high economic burden, its impact goes beyond its severe consequences for human and animal health and has become a global public health concern that affects the whole of society and requires urgent and coordinated intersectoral action in accordance with the 'One Health' approach. Such action includes strengthening of the prudent use of antimicrobials, avoiding their routine prophylactic and metaphylactic use, actions to restrict the use in animals of antimicrobials that are of critical importance for preventing or treating life-threatening infections in humans and encouraging and incentivising the development of new antimicrobials. It also needs to be ensured that appropriate warnings and guidance are included on the labels of veterinary antimicrobials. Use that is not covered by the terms of the marketing authorisation of certain new or critically important antimicrobials for humans should be restricted in the veterinary sector. The rules for advertising veterinary antimicrobials should be tightened, and the authorisation requirements should sufficiently address the risks and benefits of antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products.
recital 20
(20) In order to avoid unnecessary administrative and financial burdens for applicants and competent authorities, a full in-depth assessment of an application for the authorisation of a veterinary medicinal product should be carried out only once.

It is appropriate therefore to lay down special procedures for the mutual recognition of national authorisations.
Applications for generic veterinary medicinal products
IV.2. Applications for hybrid veterinary medicinal products
IV.3. Applications for combination veterinary medicinal products
IV.4. Applications based on informed consent
IV.5. Applications based on bibliographic data
IV.6.

Applications for limited markets
IV.7. Applications in exceptional circumstances
SECTION V
REQUIREMENTS FOR MARKETING AUTHORISATION APPLICATIONS FOR PARTICULAR VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
V.1. Novel therapies veterinary medicinal products
V.1.1
General requirements
V.1.2. Quality requirements
V.1.3. Safety requirements
V.1.4. Efficacy requirements
V.1.5. Specific data requirements for particular types of novel therapy products
V.1.5.1. Principles
V.1.5.2. Gene therapy veterinary medicinal products
V.1.5.3. Regenerative medicine, tissue engineering and cell therapy veterinary medicinal products
V.1.5.4. Veterinary medicinal product specifically designed for phage therapy
V.1.5.5. Veterinary medicinal product issued from nanotechnologies
V.1.5.6. RNA antisense therapy and RNA interference therapy products
V.2. Vaccine antigen master file
V.3. Multi-strain dossier
V.4. Vaccine platform technology
V.5. Authorised homeopathic veterinary medicinal products
I.1. General principles
I.1.1. The documentation accompanying an application for a marketing authorisation pursuant to Articles 8, and 18 to 25 shall be presented in accordance with the requirements set out in this Annex and shall take into account the guidance documents published by the Commission and the requirements for electronic format published by the Agency. I.1.2. In assembling the dossier for application for a marketing authorisation, applicants shall also take into account the most up-to-date veterinary medicinal knowledge and the scientific guidelines relating to the quality, safety and efficacy of veterinary medicinal products published by the Agency. I.1.3. For veterinary medicinal products, all relevant monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia, including general monographs and the general chapters, are applicable for the appropriate parts of the dossier. I.1.4. The manufacturing processes for the active substance(s) and finished product shall comply with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP). I.1.5. All information which is relevant to the evaluation of the veterinary medicinal product concerned shall be included in the application, whether favourable or unfavourable to the product. In particular, all relevant details related to any incomplete or abandoned study or trial relating to the veterinary medicinal product shall be given. ▼M2
I.1.6. Pharmacological, toxicological, residue and pre-clinical safety studies shall be carried out in conformity with the provisions related to Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) laid down in Directives 2004/10/EC (
14
) and 2004/9/EC (
15
) of the European Parliament and of the Council. ▼M1
I.1.7. All experiments on animals shall be conducted taking into account the principles laid down in Directive 2010/63/EU, notwithstanding the place of conduct of the experiments. I.1.8. The environmental risk assessment connected with the release of veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) within the meaning of Article 2 of Directive 2001/18/EC shall be provided in the dossier as a separate document. The information shall be presented in accordance with the provisions of Directive 2001/18/EC, taking into account guidance published by the Commission. I.1.9. The applicant shall confirm in Part 1 of the dossier for an application for marketing authorisation that all submitted data relevant to the quality, safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product, including data publicly available, are not subject to protection of technical documentation. I.2. 
Dossier composition requirements
Any dossier for an application for marketing authorisation for a veterinary medicinal product shall consist of the following parts:I.2.1. Part 1: Summary of the dossier
Part 1 shall include administrative information as outlined in Annex I, as follows: (a) 
Part 1A: points 1 to 4 and 6.1 to 6.4; (b) 
Part 1B: point 5; (c) 
Part 1C: point 6.5. With regard to Part 1B, point 5.1, in connection to Article 35(1), point (l), an application proposing classification of a veterinary medicinal product as "not subject to veterinary prescription" shall include a critical review of the product characteristics in order to justify the suitability of such classification taking into consideration target and non-target animal safety, public health as well as environmental safety, as outlined in the criteria given in Article 34(3), points (a) to (g).Each critical expert report shall be prepared with regard to the state of scientific knowledge at the time of submission of the application. It shall contain an evaluation of the various tests and trials which constitute the marketing authorisation dossier, and shall address all aspects relevant to the assessment of the quality, safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product. It shall give detailed results of the tests and trials submitted and precise bibliographic references. Copies of the bibliographic references cited shall be provided.The critical expert reports shall be signed and dated by the author of those reports, and information about the author's educational background, training and occupational experience shall be attached. The professional relationship of the author with the applicant shall be declared.The critical expert reports and the appendices shall contain precise and clear cross-references to the information contained in the technical documentation.Where Part 2 is presented using the format of the Common Technical Document (CTD), the quality overall summary (QOS) shall be used for the critical expert report on quality.For Parts 3 and 4 the critical expert report shall also include a tabulated summary of all technical documentation and relevant data submitted.I.2.2. Part 2: Quality documentation (physicochemical, biological or microbiological information)
(1) The pharmaceutical quality (physicochemical, biological or microbiological) data shall include for the active substance(s) and for the finished veterinary medicinal product information on the manufacturing process, the characterisation and properties, the quality control procedures and requirements, the stability as well as a description of the composition, the development and presentation of the veterinary medicinal product. (2) All monographs, including specific monographs, general monographs and general chapters of the European Pharmacopoeia are applicable. For immunological veterinary medicinal products, all monographs, including specific monographs, general monographs and general chapters of the European Pharmacopoeia are applicable, unless otherwise justified. In the absence of a European Pharmacopoeia monograph, the monograph of a Member State pharmacopoeia may be applied. In cases where a substance is described neither in the European Pharmacopoeia nor in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, compliance with the monograph of a third country pharmacopoeia may be accepted if its suitability is demonstrated; in such cases, the applicant shall submit a copy of the monograph accompanied by a translation where appropriate. Data to demonstrate the ability of the monograph to adequately control the quality of the substance shall be presented. (3) If tests other than those mentioned in the pharmacopoeia are used, the use of such tests shall be justified by providing proof that the materials, if tested in accordance with the pharmacopoeia, would meet the quality requirements of the relevant pharmacopoeial monograph. (4) All test procedures for analysis and quality control shall take account of established guidance and requirements. The results of the validation studies shall be provided.
(2) 'substance' means any matter of the following origin: (a) human; (b) animal; (c) vegetable; (d) chemical;
(33) 
'veterinary prescription' means a document issued by a veterinarian for a veterinary medicinal product or a medicinal product for human use for its use in animals;

(34) 
'withdrawal period' means the minimum period between the last administration of a veterinary medicinal product to an animal and the production of foodstuffs from that animal which under normal conditions of use is necessary to ensure that such foodstuffs do not contain residues in quantities harmful to public health; (35) 
'placing on the market' means the first making available of a veterinary medicinal product on the whole of the Union market or in one or more Member States, as applicable; (36) 
'wholesale distribution' means all activities consisting of procuring, holding, supplying or exporting veterinary medicinal products whether for profit or not, apart from retail supply of veterinary medicinal products to the public; (37) 
'aquatic species' mean species referred to in point (3) of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
3
); (38) 
'food-producing animals' mean food-producing animals as defined in point (b) of Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 470/2009; (39) 
'variation' means a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for a veterinary medicinal product as referred to in Article 36; (40) 
'advertising of veterinary medicinal products' means the making of a representation in any form in connection with veterinary medicinal products in order to promote the supply, distribution, sale, prescription or use of veterinary medicinal products and comprising also the supply of samples and sponsorships; (41) 
'signal management process' means a process for performing active surveillance of pharmacovigilance data for veterinary medicinal products in order to assess the pharmacovigilance data and determine whether there is any change to the benefit-risk balance of those veterinary medicinal products, with a view to detecting risks to animal or public health or protection of the environment; (42) 
'potential serious risk to human or animal health or to the environment' means a situation where there is a significantly high probability that a serious hazard resulting from the use of a veterinary medicinal product will affect human or animal health or the environment; (43) 
'novel therapy veterinary medicinal product' means: (a) 
a veterinary medicinal product specifically designed for gene therapy, regenerative medicine, tissue engineering, blood product therapy, phage therapy; (b) 
a veterinary medicinal product issued from nanotechnologies; or
(c) 
any other therapy which is considered as a nascent field in veterinary medicine; (44) 
'epidemiological unit' means an epidemiological unit as defined in point (39) of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429.
The Commission should take into account scientific recommendations of the European Medicines Agency, established by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ('the Agency'), for example concerning measures to minimise over-dosage or under-dosage, unintended administration to non-target animals, the risk of cross-contamination and dissemination of those products in the environment. (15) With a view to harmonising the internal market for veterinary medicinal products in the Union and improving their free movement, rules should be established concerning the procedures for authorisation of such products that ensure the same conditions for all applications and a transparent framework for all interested parties. (16) The scope of the mandatory use of a centralised authorisation procedure under which the authorisations are valid throughout the Union should cover, inter alia, products containing new active substances and products which contain or consist of engineered tissues or cells, including novel therapy veterinary medicinal products with the exclusion of blood components, such as plasma, platelet concentrates or red cells. At the same time, in order to ensure the widest possible availability of veterinary medicinal products in the Union, the access of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to the centralised authorisation procedure should be facilitated by all appropriate means, and its use should be extended to allow for applications for authorisations under that procedure to be submitted for any veterinary medicinal product, including for generics of nationally authorised veterinary medicinal products. (17) The replacement or the addition of a new antigen or a new strain in the case of already authorised immunological veterinary medicinal products against, for example, avian influenza, bluetongue, foot and mouth disease or equine influenza should not be considered as adding a new active substance. (18) The national procedure for authorising veterinary medicinal products should be maintained because of varying needs in different geographical areas of the Union as well as the business models of SMEs. It should be ensured that marketing authorisations granted in one Member State are recognised in other Member States. (19) In order to help applicants, and in particular SMEs, to comply with the requirements of this Regulation, Member States should provide advice to the applicants. That advice should be provided in addition to the operational guidance documents and other advice and assistance provided by the Agency. (20) In order to avoid unnecessary administrative and financial burdens for applicants and competent authorities, a full in-depth assessment of an application for the authorisation of a veterinary medicinal product should be carried out only once. It is appropriate therefore to lay down special procedures for the mutual recognition of national authorisations. (21) Moreover, rules should be established under the mutual recognition procedure to resolve any disagreements between competent authorities in a coordination group for mutual recognition and decentralised procedures for veterinary medicinal products ('the coordination group') without undue delay. This Regulation also lays down new tasks for the coordination group, including the drawing up an annual list of reference veterinary medicinal products which are to be subject to harmonisation of the summary of product characteristics, the issuing of recommendations on pharmacovigilance and its involvement in the signal management process. (22) Where a Member State, the Commission or the marketing authorisation holder considers that there are reasons to believe that a veterinary medicinal product could present a potential serious risk to human or animal health or to the environment, a scientific evaluation of the product should be undertaken at Union level, leading to a single decision on the area of disagreement, binding on the relevant Member States, and taken on the basis of an overall benefit-risk assessment. (23) No veterinary medicinal product should be allowed to be placed on the market in the Union unless it has been authorised, and its quality, safety and efficacy have been demonstrated. (24) Where a veterinary medicinal product is intended for food-producing animal species, a marketing authorisation should only be granted if the pharmacologically active substances which the product contains are allowed in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 470/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (6) and any acts adopted on the basis thereof for the animal species for which the veterinary medicinal product is intended. (25) There may be, however, situations where no suitable authorised veterinary medicinal product is available. In those situations, by way of exception, veterinarians should be allowed to prescribe other medicinal products to the animals under their responsibility in conformity with strict rules and only in the interest of animal health or animal welfare. In the case of food-producing animals, veterinarians should ensure that an appropriate withdrawal period is prescribed, so that harmful residues of those medicinal products do not enter the food chain, and particular care should therefore be taken when administering antimicrobials. (26) Member States should be able to allow the exceptional use of veterinary medicinal products without a marketing authorisation where it is necessary to respond to Union-listed diseases or emerging diseases and where the health situation in a Member State so requires. (27) Taking into account the need for simple rules on changes to the marketing authorisations of veterinary medicinal products, only changes that can affect public or animal health or the environment should require a scientific assessment. (28) Directive 2010/63/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (7) lays down provisions on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes based on the principles of replacement, reduction and refinement. Clinical trials for veterinary medicinal products are exempted from the scope of that Directive. The design and performance of clinical trials, which provide essential information on the safety and efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product, should take into account those principles of replacement, reduction and refinement, where they concern the care and use of live animals for scientific purposes, and should be optimised in order to provide the most satisfactory results whilst using the minimum number of animals. The procedures of such clinical trials should be designed to avoid causing pain, suffering or distress to animals and should take into account the principles laid down in Directive 2010/63/EU, including the use of alternative test methods wherever possible, and the guidelines of the International Cooperation on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Veterinary Medicinal Products ('VICH'). (29) It is recognised that improved access to information contributes to public awareness, gives the public the opportunity to express its observations and enables authorities to take due account of those observations. The general public should therefore have access to information in the product database, the pharmacovigilance database and the manufacturing and wholesale distribution database, after the deletion of any commercially confidential information by the competent authority. Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (8) gives the fullest possible effect to the right of public access to documents and lays down the general principles and limits on such access. The Agency should therefore give the widest possible access to the documents while carefully balancing the right for information with existing data protection requirements.
(2) 'substance' means any matter of the following origin: (a) human; (b) animal; (c) vegetable; (d) chemical;
(33) 'veterinary prescription' means a document issued by a veterinarian for a veterinary medicinal product or a medicinal product for human use for its use in animals; (34) 'withdrawal period' means the minimum period between the last administration of a veterinary medicinal product to an animal and the production of foodstuffs from that animal which under normal conditions of use is necessary to ensure that such foodstuffs do not contain residues in quantities harmful to public health; (35) 'placing on the market' means the first making available of a veterinary medicinal product on the whole of the Union market or in one or more Member States, as applicable; (36) 'wholesale distribution' means all activities consisting of procuring, holding, supplying or exporting veterinary medicinal products whether for profit or not, apart from retail supply of veterinary medicinal products to the public; (37) 'aquatic species' mean species referred to in point (3) of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429 of the European Parliament and of the Council (21); (38) 'food-producing animals' mean food-producing animals as defined in point (b) of Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 470/2009; (39) 'variation' means a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for a veterinary medicinal product as referred to in Article 36; (40) 'advertising of veterinary medicinal products' means the making of a representation in any form in connection with veterinary medicinal products in order to promote the supply, distribution, sale, prescription or use of veterinary medicinal products and comprising also the supply of samples and sponsorships; (41) 'signal management process' means a process for performing active surveillance of pharmacovigilance data for veterinary medicinal products in order to assess the pharmacovigilance data and determine whether there is any change to the benefit-risk balance of those veterinary medicinal products, with a view to detecting risks to animal or public health or protection of the environment; (42) 'potential serious risk to human or animal health or to the environment' means a situation where there is a significantly high probability that a serious hazard resulting from the use of a veterinary medicinal product will affect human or animal health or the environment; (43) 'novel therapy veterinary medicinal product' means: (a) a veterinary medicinal product specifically designed for gene therapy, regenerative medicine, tissue engineering, blood product therapy, phage therapy; (b) a veterinary medicinal product issued from nanotechnologies; or
(c) any other therapy which is considered as a nascent field in veterinary medicine; (44) 'epidemiological unit' means an epidemiological unit as defined in point (39) of Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2016/429.
It shall contain an evaluation of the various tests and trials, which constitute the marketing authorisation dossier, and shall address all points relevant to the assessment of the quality, safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product. It shall give detailed results of the tests and trials submitted and precise bibliographic references. All important data shall be summarised in an appendix, whenever possible in tabular or graphic form. The detailed and critical summaries and the appendices shall contain precise cross references to the information contained in the main documentation. The detailed and critical summaries shall be signed and dated, and information about the author's educational background, training and occupational experience shall be attached. The professional relationship of the author with the applicant shall be declared. Where the active substance has been included in a medicinal product for human use authorised in accordance with the requirements of Annex I to Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (9) the overall quality summary provided for in Module 2, section 2.3 of that Annex may replace the summary regarding the documentation related to the active substance or the product, as appropriate. Where the competent authority has publicly announced that the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological/microbiological information for the finished product may be included in the dossier in the Common Technical Document (CTD) format only, the detailed and critical summary on the results of pharmaceutical tests may be presented in the quality overall summary format. In the case of application for an animal species or for indications representing smaller market sectors, the quality overall summary format may be used without prior agreement of the competent authorities. PART 2
Pharmaceutical (physico-chemical, biological or microbiological information (quality))
Basic principles and requirements
The particulars and documents which shall accompany the application for marketing authorisation pursuant to the first indent of Article 12(3)(j) shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements below. The pharmaceutical (physico-chemical, biological or microbiological) data shall include for the active substance(s) and for the finished veterinary medicinal product information on the manufacturing process, the characterisation and properties, the quality control procedures and requirements, the stability as well as a description of the composition, the development and presentation of the veterinary medicinal product. All monographs, including general monographs and general chapters of the European Pharmacopoeia, or failing that, of a Member State are applicable. All test procedures shall fulfil the criteria for analysis and control of the quality of the starting materials and the finished product and should take account of established guidance and requirements. The results of the validation studies shall be provided. All the test procedure(s) shall be described in sufficiently precise detail so as to be reproducible in control tests, carried out at the request of the competent authority; any special apparatus and equipment, which may be used shall be described in adequate detail, possibly accompanied by a diagram. The formulae of the laboratory reagents shall be supplemented, if necessary, by the method of preparation. In the case of test procedures included in the European Pharmacopoeia or the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, this description may be replaced by a detailed reference to the pharmacopoeia in question. Where relevant, chemical and biological reference material of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be used. If other reference preparations and standards are used, they shall be identified and described in detail. In cases where the active substance has been included in a medicinal product for human use authorised in accordance with the requirements of Annex I to Directive 2001/83/EC the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological/microbiological information provided for in Module 3 of that Directive may replace the documentation related to the active substance or the finished product, as appropriate. The chemical, pharmaceutical and biological/microbiological information for the active substance or the finished product may be included in the dossier in CTD format only where the competent authority has publicly announced this possibility. In the case of any application for an animal species or for indications representing smaller market sectors the CTD format may be followed without prior agreement of the competent authorities. A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE PARTICULARS OF THE CONSTITUENTS
1. Qualitative particulars
 'Qualitative particulars' of all the constituents of the medicinal product shall mean the designation or description of: —
active substance(s),
—
the constituents of the excipients, whatever their nature or the quantity used, including colouring matter, preservatives, adjuvants, stabilisers, thickeners, emulsifiers, flavouring and aromatic substances,
—
the constituents, intended to be ingested or otherwise administered to animals, of the outer covering of the veterinary medicinal products, such as capsules, gelatine capsules. These particulars shall be supplemented by any relevant data concerning the immediate packaging and if relevant the secondary packaging and, where appropriate, its manner of closure, together with details of devices with which the medicinal product will be used or administered and which will be supplied with the medicinal product. 2. Usual terminology
The usual terminology to be used in describing the constituents of veterinary medicinal products means, notwithstanding the application of the other provisions of Article 12(3)(c): —
in respect of constituents which appear in the European Pharmacopoeia or, failing this, in the national pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States, the main title at the head of the monograph in question, with reference to the pharmacopoeia concerned,
—
in respect of other constituents, the international non-proprietary name (INN) recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO), which may be accompanied by another non-proprietary name, or, failing these, the exact scientific designation; constituents not having an international non-proprietary name or an exact scientific designation shall be described by a statement of how and from what they were prepared, supplemented, where appropriate, by any other relevant details,
—
in respect of colouring matter, designation by the 'E' code assigned to them by Council Directive 78/25/EEC (10). 3. Quantitative particulars
3.1. In order to give 'quantitative particulars' of all the active substances of the veterinary medicinal products, it is necessary, depending on the pharmaceutical form concerned, to specify the mass, or the number of units of biological activity, either per dosage-unit or per unit of mass or volume, of each active substance. Units of biological activity shall be used for substances, which cannot be defined chemically. Where an International Unit of biological activity has been defined by the World Health Organisation, this shall be used. Where no International Unit has been defined, the units of biological activity shall be expressed in such a way as to provide unambiguous information on the activity of the substances by using where applicable the European Pharmacopoeia Units. Whenever possible, biological activity per units of mass or volume shall be indicated. This information shall be supplemented:
(3) 'active substance' means any substance or mixture of substances intended to be used in the manufacture of a veterinary medicinal product that, when used in its production, becomes an active ingredient of that product;
The Agency should therefore give the widest possible access to the documents while carefully balancing the right for information with existing data protection requirements. Certain public and private interests, such as personal data and commercially confidential information, should be protected by way of exceptions in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001. (30) Companies have less interest in developing veterinary medicinal products for markets of a limited size. In order to promote the availability of veterinary medicinal products within the Union for those markets, in some cases it should be possible to grant marketing authorisations without a complete application dossier having been submitted, on the basis of a benefit-risk assessment of the situation and, where necessary, subject to specific obligations. In particular, the grant of such marketing authorisations should be possible in the case of veterinary medicinal products for use in minor species or for the treatment or prevention of diseases that occur infrequently or in limited geographical areas. (31) For all new applications for a marketing authorisation, environmental risk assessments should be mandatory and should consist of two phases. In the first phase the extent of environmental exposure to the product, its active substances and other constituent should be estimated, while in the second phase the effects of the active residue should be assessed. (32) Where there is concern that a pharmaceutical substance could pose serious risk to the environment, it may be appropriate to examine that substance in the context of Union environmental legislation. In particular, under Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (9), it may be appropriate to identify whether that substance is a substance for inclusion in the surface water watch list, in order to gather monitoring data on it. It may be appropriate to include it in the list of priority substances and to set an environmental quality standard for it, as well as to identify measures to reduce its emissions to the environment. Those measures could include measures to reduce emissions from manufacturing by following Best Available Techniques (BAT) under Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council (10), particularly if the emission of active pharmaceutical ingredients have been identified as a key environmental issue during the drafting or revision of relevant Best Available Technique Reference Documents (BREFs) and their accompanying BAT conclusions. (33) Tests, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials represent a major investment for companies which they need to make in order to submit the necessary data with the application for a marketing authorisation or to establish a maximum residue limit for pharmacologically active substances of the veterinary medicinal product. That investment should be protected in order to stimulate research and innovation, in particular on veterinary medicinal products for minor species and antimicrobials, so that it is ensured that the necessary veterinary medicinal products are available in the Union. For that reason, data submitted to a competent authority or the Agency should be protected against use by other applicants. That protection, however, should be limited in time in order to allow for competition. Similar protection of investments should be applied to studies supporting a new pharmaceutical form, administration route or dosage that reduces the antimicrobial or antiparasitic resistance or improves the benefit-risk balance. (34) Certain particulars and documents that are normally to be submitted with an application for a marketing authorisation should not be required if a veterinary medicinal product is a generic medicinal product of a veterinary medicinal product that is authorised or has been authorised in the Union. (35) It is recognised that the potential effect of a product on the environment may depend on the volume used and the resulting amount of the pharmaceutical substance that may reach the environment. Therefore, where there is evidence that a constituent of a medicinal product, for which an application for a marketing authorisation for a generic veterinary medicinal product has been submitted, is a hazard for the environment, it is appropriate to require data on the potential effect on the environment in order to protect the environment. In such cases, applicants should endeavour to join efforts in generating such data in order to reduce costs and to reduce testing on vertebrate animals. The establishment of a single Union assessment of the environmental properties of active substances for veterinary use by means of an active substance-based review ('monograph') system could be a potential alternative. The Commission should therefore submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council which examines the feasibility of such a monograph system and other potential alternatives for environmental risk assessment of veterinary medicinal products, accompanied, if appropriate, by a legislative proposal. (36) The protection of technical documentation should be applied to new veterinary medicinal products, as well as to data developed for supporting innovations of products with or referring to an existing marketing authorisation. In that case, the variation or marketing authorisation application may refer partly to data submitted in a former marketing authorisation or variation applications, and should include new data specifically developed to support the required innovation of the existing product. (37) Differences in the manufacturing process of biological products or a change in the excipient used may lead to differences in the generic product characteristics. In an application for a marketing authorisation for a generic biological veterinary medicinal product, the bioequivalence should therefore be demonstrated in order to ensure, based on the existing knowledge, that quality, safety and efficacy are similar. (38) In order to avoid unnecessary administrative and financial burdens both for the competent authorities and for the pharmaceutical industry, as a general rule a marketing authorisation for a veterinary medicinal product should be granted for an unlimited period of time. Conditions for renewing the approval of a marketing authorisation should be imposed only exceptionally and should be duly justified. (39) It is recognised that, in some cases, a scientific risk assessment alone cannot provide all the information on which a risk management decision should be based, and other relevant factors, including societal, economical, ethical, environmental and welfare factors and the feasibility of controls, should also be taken into account. (40) In certain circumstances where a significant public or animal health concern exists but scientific uncertainty persists, appropriate measures can be adopted taking into account Article 5(7) of the WTO Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures which has been interpreted for the Union in the communication from the Commission of 2 February 2000 on the precautionary principle. In such circumstances, Member States or the Commission should seek to obtain additional information necessary for a more objective assessment of the particular concern and should review the measure accordingly within a reasonable period of time. (41) Antimicrobial resistance to medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products is a growing health problem in the Union and worldwide. Due to the complexity of the problem, its cross-border dimension and the high economic burden, its impact goes beyond its severe consequences for human and animal health and has become a global public health concern that affects the whole of society and requires urgent and coordinated intersectoral action in accordance with the 'One Health' approach.
(3) 'active substance' means any substance or mixture of substances intended to be used in the manufacture of a veterinary medicinal product that, when used in its production, becomes an active ingredient of that product;
The results of the validation studies shall be provided. All the test procedure(s) shall be described in sufficient detail so as to be reproducible in control tests, carried out at the request of the competent authority and in order to be properly assessed by the competent authority. Any special apparatus and equipment, which may be used shall be described in adequate manner, accompanied by a diagram, if relevant. The formulae of the laboratory reagents shall be supplemented, if necessary, by the method of preparation. In the case of test procedures included in the European Pharmacopoeia or the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, this description may be replaced by a detailed reference to the pharmacopoeia in question. (5) Where available, chemical and biological reference material of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be used. If other reference preparations and standards are used, they shall be identified and described in detail. (6) The pharmaceutical quality (physicochemical, biological or microbiological) data for the active substance and/or the finished product may be included in the dossier in Common Technical Document (CTD) format. (7) For biological veterinary medicinal products, including immunologicals, information on solvents needed for making the final product preparation shall be included in the dossier. A biological veterinary medicinal product is regarded as one product even when more than one solvent is required so that different preparations of the final product can be prepared, which may be for administration by different routes or methods of administration. Solvents supplied with biological veterinary medicinal products may be packed together with the active substance vials or separately. (8) In accordance with Directive 2010/63/EU and the European Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals Used for Experimental and Other Scientific Purposes, tests shall be carried out in such a way as to use the minimum number of animals and to cause the least pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm. If available, an alternative in vitro test shall be used when this leads to replacement or reduction of animal use or reduction of suffering. I.2.3. 
Part 3: Safety documentation (safety and residues tests)
(1) The dossier on the safety studies shall include the following: (a) 
synthesis of the tests which have been carried out in compliance with this Part, with detailed references to the published literature containing an objective discussion of all the results obtained. Omission of any tests or trials listed and inclusion of an alternative type of study shall be indicated and discussed; ▼M2
(b) 
statement of compliance with GLP for pre-clinical safety studies, where applicable, together with a discussion of the contribution that any non-GLP study may make to the overall risk assessment, and justification of non-GLP status. ▼M1
(2) The dossier shall include the following: (a) 
an index of all studies and trials included in the dossier; (b) 
a justification for the omission of any type of study and trial; (c) 
an explanation of the inclusion of an alternative type of study or trial; (d) 
a discussion of the contribution that any non-GLP study or trial may make to the overall risk assessment and justification of non-GLP status. I.2.4. Part 4: Efficacy documentation (pre-clinical studies and clinical trial(s))
(1) The dossier on efficacy shall include all pre-clinical and clinical documentation, whether favourable or unfavourable to the veterinary medicinal products, in order to enable an objective overall assessment of the benefit/risk balance of the product. (2) The dossier on the efficacy studies shall include the following: (a) 
synthesis of the tests which have been carried out in compliance with this Part, with detailed references to the published literature containing an objective discussion of all the results obtained. Omission of any tests or trials listed and inclusion of an alternative type of study shall be indicated and discussed; ▼M2
(b) 
a statement of compliance with GLP for pre-clinical safety studies, where applicable, together with a discussion of the contribution that any non-GLP study may make to the overall risk assessment, and justification of non-GLP status. ▼M1
(3) The dossier shall include the following: (a) 
an index of all studies included in the dossier; (b) 
a justification for the omission of any type of study; (c) 
an explanation of the inclusion of an alternative type of study. (4) The purpose of the trials described in this Part is to demonstrate the efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product. All claims made by the applicant with regard to the properties, effects and use of the product shall be fully supported by results of specific trials contained in the application for marketing authorisation. (5) All efficacy trials shall be conducted in accordance with a fully considered detailed protocol, which shall be recorded in writing prior to commencement of the trial. The welfare of the trial animals shall be subject to veterinary supervision and shall be taken fully into consideration during the elaboration of any trial protocol and throughout the conduct of the trial. (6) Clinical trials (field trials) shall be conducted in accordance with established principles of good clinical practice, unless otherwise justified. (7) Before the commencement of any field trial, the informed consent of the owner of the animals to be used in the trial shall be obtained and documented. In particular, the animal owner shall be informed in writing of the consequences of participation in the trial for the subsequent disposal of treated animals or for the taking of foodstuffs from treated animals. I.2.5. Detailed requirements for different types of veterinary medicinal products or marketing authorisation dossiers
(1) Detailed requirements for different types of veterinary medicinal products or specific types of marketing authorisation dossiers are outlined in the following Sections of this Annex: (a) 
Section II describes the standardised requirements for applications for veterinary medicinal products other than biological veterinary medicinal products; (b) 
Section III describes the standardised requirements for applications for biological veterinary medicinal products: (i) 
Section IIIa describes the standardised requirements for applications for biological veterinary medicinal products other than immunological veterinary medicinal products; (ii) 
Section IIIb describes the standardised requirements for applications for immunological veterinary medicinal products; (c) 
Section IV describes the dossier requirements for specific types of marketing authorisation dossiers; (d) 
Section V describes the dossier requirements for particular types of veterinary medicinal products. The following detailed requirements shall apply to veterinary medicinal products other than biological veterinary medicinal products, except where otherwise set out in Section IV.II.1. Part 1: Summary of the dossier
Please refer to Section I.II.2. Part 2: Quality documentation (physicochemical, biological or microbiological information)
II.2A. Product description
II.2A1. Qualitative and quantitative composition
(1) Qualitative composition of all the constituents of the medicinal product shall mean the designation or description of: (a) 
active substance(s); (b) 
excipients, the constituents of the excipients, whatever their nature or the quantity used, including colouring matter, preservatives, adjuvants, stabilisers, thickeners, emulsifiers, flavouring and aromatic substances; (c) 
other constituents, intended to be ingested or otherwise administered to animals, of the outer covering of the veterinary medicinal products, such as capsules, gelatine capsules, intraruminal devices;
This information shall be supplemented: —
in respect of single-dose preparations, by the mass or units of biological activity of each active substance in the unit container, taking into account the usable volume of the product, after reconstitution, where appropriate,
—
in respect of veterinary medicinal products to be administered by drops, by the mass or units of biological activity of each active substance contained per drop or contained in the number of drops corresponding to 1 ml or 1 g of the preparation,
—
in respect of syrups, emulsions, granular preparations and other pharmaceutical forms to be administered in measured quantities, by the mass or units of biological activity of each active substance per measured quantity. 3.2. Active substances present in the form of compounds or derivatives shall be described quantitatively by their total mass, and if necessary or relevant, by the mass of the active entity or entities of the molecule. 3.3. For veterinary medicinal products containing an active substance which is the subject of an application for marketing authorisation in any Member State for the first time, the quantitative statement of an active substance which is a salt or hydrate shall be systematically expressed in terms of the mass of the active entity or entities in the molecule. All subsequently authorised veterinary medicinal products in the Member States shall have their quantitative composition stated in the same way for the same active substance. 4. Development pharmaceutics
An explanation shall be provided with regard to the choice of composition, constituents, immediate packaging, possible further packaging, outer packaging if relevant, the intended function of the excipients in the finished product and the method of manufacture of the finished product. This explanation shall be supported by scientific data on development pharmaceutics. The overage, with justification thereof, shall be stated. The microbiological characteristics (microbiological purity and antimicrobial activity) and usage instructions shall be proven to be appropriate for the intended use of the veterinary medicinal product as specified in the marketing authorisation application dossier. B. DESCRIPTION OF THE MANUFACTURING METHOD
The name, address and responsibility of each manufacturer and each proposed production site or facility involved in manufacturing and testing shall be indicated. The description of the manufacturing method accompanying the application for marketing authorisation pursuant to Article 12(3)(d), shall be drafted in such a way as to give an adequate synopsis of the nature of the operations employed. For this purpose it shall include at least: —
mention of the various stages of manufacture, so that an assessment can be made of whether the processes employed in producing the pharmaceutical form might have produced an adverse change in the constituents,
—
in the case of continuous manufacture, full details concerning precautions taken to ensure the homogeneity of the finished product,
—
the actual manufacturing formula, with the quantitative particulars of all the substances used, the quantities of excipients, however, being given in approximate terms insofar as the pharmaceutical form makes this necessary; mention shall be made of any substances that may disappear in the course of manufacture; any overage shall be indicated and justified,
—
a statement of the stages of manufacture at which sampling is carried out for in-process control tests and the limits applied, where other data in the documents supporting the application show such tests to be necessary for the quality control of the finished product,
—
experimental studies validating the manufacturing process and where appropriate a process validation scheme for production scale batches,
—
for sterile products, where non-pharmacopoeial standard sterilisation conditions are used, details of the sterilisation processes and/or aseptic procedures used. C. CONTROL OF STARTING MATERIALS
1. General requirements
For the purposes of this paragraph, 'starting materials' shall mean all the constituents of the veterinary medicinal product and, if necessary, of its container including its closure, as referred to in Section A, point 1, above. The dossier shall include the specifications and information on the tests to be conducted for quality control of all batches of starting materials. The routine tests carried out on each batch of starting materials must be as stated in the application for marketing authorisation. If tests other than those mentioned in a pharmacopoeia are used, this shall be justified by providing proof that the starting materials meet the quality requirements of that pharmacopoeia. Where a Certificate of Suitability has been issued by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare for a starting material, active substance or excipient, this Certificate constitutes the reference to the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia. Where a Certificate of Suitability is referred to, the manufacturer shall give an assurance in writing to the applicant that the manufacturing process has not been modified since the granting of the certificate of suitability by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare. Certificates of Analysis shall be presented for the starting materials in order to demonstrate compliance with the defined specification. 1.1. Active substances
The name, address, and responsibility of each manufacturer and each proposed production site or facility involved in manufacturing and testing of an active substance shall be indicated. For a well-defined active substance, the active substance manufacturer or the applicant may arrange for the following information to be supplied in a separate document directly to the competent authorities by the manufacturer of the active substance as an Active Substance Master File: (a) a detailed description of the manufacturing process; (b) a description of the quality control during manufacture; (c) a description of the process validation. In this case, the manufacturer shall however provide the applicant with all the data which may be necessary for the latter to take responsibility for the veterinary medicinal product. The manufacturer shall confirm in writing to the applicant that he shall ensure batch to batch consistency and not modify the manufacturing process or specifications without informing the applicant. Documents and particulars supporting the application for such a change shall be supplied to the competent authorities those documents and particulars shall also be supplied to the applicant where they concern the applicant's part of the Active Substance Master File. Additionally, information on the method of manufacture, on quality control and on impurities as well as evidence of the molecular structure shall be provided where a Certificate of Suitability for the active substance is not available: (1) Information on the manufacturing process shall include a description of the active substance manufacturing process that represents the applicant's commitment for the manufacture of the active substance. All materials needed in order to manufacture the active substance(s) shall be listed, identifying where each material is used in the process. Information on the quality and control of those materials shall be provided. Information demonstrating that materials meet standards which are appropriate for their intended use shall be provided. (2) Information on quality control shall contain tests (including acceptance criteria) carried out at every critical step, information on the quality and control of intermediates and process validation and/or evaluation studies as appropriate. It shall also contain validation data for the analytical methods applied to the active substance, where appropriate.
(4) 'excipient' means any constituent of a veterinary medicinal product other than an active substance or packaging material;
It shall also contain validation data for the analytical methods applied to the active substance, where appropriate. (3) Information on impurities shall indicate predictable impurities together with the levels and nature of observed impurities. It shall also contain information on the safety of these impurities where relevant. (4) For biotechnological veterinary medicinal products, evidence of molecular structure shall include the schematic amino acid sequence and relative molecular mass. 1.1.1. Active substances listed in pharmacopoeias
The general and specific monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be applicable to all active substances appearing in it. Constituents fulfilling the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia or the pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States shall be deemed to comply sufficiently with Article 12(3)(i). In this case the description of the analytical methods and procedures shall be replaced in each relevant section by an appropriate reference to the pharmacopoeia in question. In cases where a specification contained in a monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia or in the national pharmacopoeia of a Member State is insufficient to ensure the quality of the substance, the competent authorities may request more appropriate specifications from the applicant, including limits for specific impurities with validated test procedures. The competent authorities shall inform the authorities responsible for the pharmacopoeia in question. The marketing authorisation holder shall provide the authorities of that pharmacopoeia with the details of the alleged insufficiency and the additional specifications applied. In the absence of a European Pharmacopoeia monograph for an active substance, and where the active substance is described in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, that monograph may be applied. In cases where an active substance is described neither in the European Pharmacopoeia nor in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, compliance with the monograph of a third country pharmacopoeia may be accepted if its suitability is demonstrated; in such cases, the applicant shall submit a copy of the monograph accompanied by a translation where appropriate. Data to demonstrate the ability of the monograph to adequately control the quality of the active substance shall be presented. 1.1.2. Active substances not in a pharmacopoeia
Constituents which are not given in any pharmacopoeia shall be described in the form of a monograph under the following headings: (a) the name of the constituent, meeting the requirements of Section A point 2, shall be supplemented by any trade or scientific synonyms; (b) the definition of the substance, set down in a form similar to that used in the European Pharmacopoeia, shall be accompanied by any necessary explanatory evidence, especially concerning the molecular structure. Where substances can only be described by their manufacturing method, the description shall be sufficiently detailed to characterise a substance which is constant both on its composition and in its effects; (c) methods of identification may be described in the form of complete techniques as used for production of the substance, and in the form of tests which ought to be carried out as a routine matter; (d) purity tests shall be described in relation to each individual predictable impurity, especially those which may have a harmful effect, and, if necessary, those which, having regard to the combination of substances to which the application refers, might adversely affect the stability of the medicinal product or distort analytical results; (e) tests and limits to control parameters relevant to the finished product, such as particle size and sterility shall be described and methods shall be validated where relevant; (f) with regard to complex substances of plant or animal origin, a distinction must be made between the case where multiple pharmacological effects render chemical, physical or biological control of the principal components necessary, and the case of substances containing one or more groups of principles having similar activity, in respect of which an overall method of assay may be accepted. Those data shall demonstrate that the proposed set of test procedures is sufficient to control the quality of the active substance from the defined source. 1.1.3. Physico-chemical characteristics liable to affect bioavailability
The following items of information concerning active substances, whether or not listed in the pharmacopoeias, shall be provided as part of the general description of the active substances if the bioavailability of the veterinary medicinal product depends on them: —
crystalline form and solubility coefficients,
—
particle size, where appropriate after pulverisation,
—
state of hydration,
—
oil/water coefficient of partition,
—
pK/pH values. The first three indents are not applicable to substances used solely in solution. 1.2. Excipients
The general and specific monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be applicable to all substances appearing in it. Excipients shall comply with the requirements of the appropriate European Pharmacopoeia monograph. Where such a monograph does not exist reference may be made to the pharmacopoeia of a Member State. In the absence of such a monograph reference may be made to the pharmacopoeia of a third country. In this case the suitability of this monograph shall be demonstrated. Where appropriate, additional tests to control parameters such as particle size, sterility, residual solvents shall supplement the requirements of the monograph. In the absence of a pharmacopoeial monograph a specification shall be proposed and justified. The requirements for specifications as set out in section 1.1.2 (a to e) for the active substance shall be followed. The proposed methods and their supporting validation data shall be presented. Colouring matters for inclusion in veterinary medicinal products shall satisfy the requirements of Directive 78/25/EEC, except for certain veterinary medicinal products for topical use, such as insecticidal collars and ear tags, where the use of other colouring matters is justified. Colouring matters shall meet the purity criteria as laid down in Commission Directive 95/45/EC (11). For novel excipients, that is to say excipient(s) used for the first time in a veterinary medicinal product or by a new route of administration, details of manufacture, characterisation, and controls, with cross references to supporting safety data, both clinical and non-clinical, shall be provided. 1.3. Container-closure systems
1.3.1. Active substance
Information on the container-closure system for the active substance shall be given. The level of information required shall be determined by the physical state (liquid, solid) of the active substance. 1.3.2. Finished product
Information on the container-closure system for the finished product shall be given. The level of information required shall be determined by the route of administration of the veterinary medicinal product and the physical state (liquid, solid) of the dosage form. Packaging materials shall comply with the requirements of the appropriate European Pharmacopoeia monograph. Where such a monograph does not exist reference may be made to the pharmacopoeia of a Member State. In the absence of such a monograph reference may be made to the Pharmacopoeia of a third country. In this case the suitability of this monograph shall be demonstrated. In the absence of a pharmacopoeial monograph, a specification shall be proposed and justified for the packaging material. Scientific data on the choice and suitability of the packaging material shall be presented. For novel packaging materials in contact with the product, information on their composition, manufacture and safety shall be presented.
(4) 'excipient' means any constituent of a veterinary medicinal product other than an active substance or packaging material;
(c) 
other constituents, intended to be ingested or otherwise administered to animals, of the outer covering of the veterinary medicinal products, such as capsules, gelatine capsules, intraruminal devices;

(d) 
any relevant data concerning the immediate packaging and if relevant the outer packaging and, where appropriate, its manner of closure, together with details of devices with which the veterinary medicinal product will be used or administered and which will be supplied with the medicinal product. (2) The usual terminology to be used in describing the constituents of veterinary medicinal products means, notwithstanding the application of the other provisions of Article 8: (a) 
in respect of substances which appear in the European Pharmacopoeia or, failing this, in the national pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States, the main title at the head of the monograph in question, with reference to the pharmacopoeia concerned; (b) 
in respect of other substances, the international non-proprietary name (INN) recommended by the World Health Organisation (WHO), which may be accompanied by another non-proprietary name, or, failing these, the exact scientific designation; (c) 
constituents not having an international non-proprietary name or an exact scientific designation shall be described by a statement of how and from what they were prepared, supplemented, where appropriate, by any other relevant details; (d) 
in respect of colouring matter, designation by the 'E' code assigned to them by Directive 2009/35/EC of the European Parliament and Council. (3) In order to give the quantitative composition of all the active substances and excipients of the veterinary medicinal products, it is necessary, depending on the pharmaceutical form concerned, to specify the mass, or the number of units of biological activity, either per dosage-unit or per unit of mass or volume, of each active substance and excipient. (4) Units of biological activity shall be used for substances which cannot be defined chemically. Where an international unit of biological activity has been defined, this shall be used. Where no international unit has been defined, the units of biological activity shall be expressed in such a way as to provide unambiguous information on the activity of the substances by using where applicable the European Pharmacopoeia Units. (5) Quantitative composition shall be supplemented: (a) 
in respect of single-dose preparations: by the mass or units of biological activity of each active substance in the unit container, taking into account the usable volume of the product, after reconstitution, where appropriate; (b) 
in respect of veterinary medicinal products to be administered by drops: by the mass or units of biological activity of each active substance contained per drop or contained in the number of drops corresponding to 1 ml or 1 g of the preparation; (c) 
in respect of pharmaceutical forms to be administered in measured quantities: by the mass or units of biological activity of each active substance per measured quantity. (6) Active substances present in the form of compounds or derivatives shall be described quantitatively by their total mass, and if necessary or relevant, by the mass of the active entity or entities of the molecule. (7) For veterinary medicinal products containing an active substance which is the subject of an application for marketing authorisation in the Union for the first time, the quantitative statement of an active substance which is a salt or hydrate shall be systematically expressed in terms of the mass of the active entity or entities in the molecule. All subsequently authorised veterinary medicinal products in the Member States shall have their quantitative composition stated in the same way for the same active substance. II.2A2. Product development
(1) An explanation shall be provided with regard to the choice of composition, constituents, packaging, the intended function of the excipients in the finished product and the method of manufacture including justification of the selection of the method and details of the sterilisation processes and/or aseptic procedures used of the finished product. This explanation shall be supported by scientific data on development pharmaceutics. Any overage, with justification thereof, shall be stated. The microbiological characteristics (microbiological purity and antimicrobial activity) and usage instructions shall be proven to be appropriate for the intended use of the veterinary medicinal product as specified in the marketing authorisation application dossier. (2) A study of the interaction between finished product and the primary packaging shall be submitted wherever the risk of such interaction is regarded as possible, especially where injectable preparations are concerned. (3) The proposed pack sizes shall be justified in relation to the proposed route of administration, the posology and the target species in particular for antimicrobial (active) substances. (4) When a dosing device is provided with the finished product, the accuracy of the doses(s) shall be demonstrated. (5) When an accompanying test is recommended to be used with the finished product (e.g. a diagnostic test), relevant information about the test shall be provided. (6) For veterinary medicinal products intended for incorporation into feed, information shall be provided on inclusion rates, instructions for incorporation, homogeneity in-feed and compatibility/suitable feed. II.2B. Description of the manufacturing method
(1) The description of the manufacturing method accompanying the application for marketing authorisation pursuant to Article 8 shall be drafted in such a way as to give an adequate synopsis of the nature of the operations employed. (2) For that purpose, it shall include at least: (a) 
the actual manufacturing formula for the proposed commercial batch size(s), with the quantitative particulars of all the substances used. Any substances that may disappear in the course of manufacture shall be stated; any overage shall be indicated; (b) 
description of the various stages of manufacture with information on process operating conditions, in a narrative way accompanied by a process flow chart; (c) 
in the case of continuous manufacture, full details of precautions taken to ensure the homogeneity of the finished product. Information as to how a batch is defined shall be provided (for example, expressed in terms of a period of time or a quantity of product, and may be expressed as ranges); (d) 
a list of in-process controls including the stage of manufacture at which they are conducted and the acceptance criteria; (e) 
experimental studies validating the manufacturing process and, where appropriate, a process validation scheme for production scale batches; (f) 
for sterile products, where non-pharmacopoeial sterilisation conditions are used, details of the sterilisation processes and/or aseptic procedures used. II.2C. Production and control of starting material
(1) For the purposes of this point, 'starting materials' shall mean active substances, excipients and packaging (immediate packaging with its closure system and, if applicable, outer packaging and any dosing device supplied with the veterinary medicinal product). (2) The dossier shall include the specifications and information on the tests to be conducted for quality control of all batches of starting materials. (3) The routine tests carried out on starting materials shall be carried out in the same manner as stated in the dossier. (4) Where a certificate of suitability has been issued by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare for a starting material, active substance or excipient, that certificate constitutes the reference to the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia.
Due to the complexity of the problem, its cross-border dimension and the high economic burden, its impact goes beyond its severe consequences for human and animal health and has become a global public health concern that affects the whole of society and requires urgent and coordinated intersectoral action in accordance with the 'One Health' approach. Such action includes strengthening of the prudent use of antimicrobials, avoiding their routine prophylactic and metaphylactic use, actions to restrict the use in animals of antimicrobials that are of critical importance for preventing or treating life-threatening infections in humans and encouraging and incentivising the development of new antimicrobials. It also needs to be ensured that appropriate warnings and guidance are included on the labels of veterinary antimicrobials. Use that is not covered by the terms of the marketing authorisation of certain new or critically important antimicrobials for humans should be restricted in the veterinary sector. The rules for advertising veterinary antimicrobials should be tightened, and the authorisation requirements should sufficiently address the risks and benefits of antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products. (42) It is necessary to mitigate the risk of development of antimicrobial resistance to medicinal products for human use and veterinary medicinal products. Therefore, an application for an antimicrobial veterinary medicinal product should contain information about the potential risks that use of that medicinal product may lead to the development of antimicrobial resistance in humans or animals or in organisms associated with them. In order to ensure a high level of public and animal health, antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products should only be authorised following a careful scientific benefit-risk assessment. If necessary, conditions should be laid down in the marketing authorisation in order to restrict the use of the veterinary medicinal product. Such conditions should include restrictions on the use of the veterinary medicinal product that is not in accordance with the terms of the marketing authorisation, in particular with the summary of product characteristics. (43) The combined use of several antimicrobial active substances may represent a particular risk with respect to the development of antimicrobial resistance. Such combined use should be taken into account, therefore, when assessing whether to authorise a veterinary medicinal product. (44) The development of new antimicrobials has not kept pace with the increase of resistance to existing antimicrobials. Given the limited innovation in developing new antimicrobials, it is essential that the efficacy of existing antimicrobials be maintained for as long as possible. The use of antimicrobials in medicinal products that are used in animals may accelerate the emergence and spread of resistant micro-organisms and may compromise the effective use of the already limited number of existing antimicrobials to treat human infections. Therefore, the misuse of antimicrobials should not be allowed. Antimicrobial medicinal products should not be used for prophylaxis other than in well-defined cases for the administration to an individual animal or restricted number of animals when the risk for infection is very high or its consequences are likely to be severe. Antibiotic medicinal products should not be used for prophylaxis other than in exceptional cases only for the administration to an individual animal. Antimicrobial medicinal products should be used for metaphylaxis only when the risk of spread of an infection or of an infectious disease in a group of animals is high and where no appropriate alternatives are available. Such restrictions should allow the decrease of prophylactic and metaphylactic use in animals towards representing a smaller proportion of the total use of antimicrobials in animals. (45) In order to strengthen Member States' national policies on the prudent use of antimicrobials, especially those antimicrobials which are important for the treatment of infections in humans, but which are also necessary for the use in the veterinary medicine, it may be necessary to restrict or prohibit their use. Member States should be allowed, therefore, following scientific recommendations, to define restrictive conditions for their use, for example conditioning their prescription to the realisation of antimicrobial susceptibility testing to ensure that there is no other antimicrobials available that are sufficiently effective or appropriate to treat diagnosed disease. (46) In order to preserve as long as possible the efficacy of certain antimicrobials in the treatment of infections in humans, it may be necessary to reserve those antimicrobials for humans only. It should be possible, therefore, to decide that certain antimicrobials, following the scientific recommendations of the Agency, should not be available on the market in the veterinary sector. When making such decisions on antimicrobials, the Commission should also take into account available recommendations on the matter provided for by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and other relevant Union agencies, which in turn also take into account any relevant recommendations from international organisations, such as the World Health Organization (WHO), the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), and the Codex Alimentarius. (47) If an antimicrobial is administered or used incorrectly, this presents a risk to public or animal health. Therefore, antimicrobial veterinary medicinal products should only be available on veterinary prescription. Veterinarians have a key role in ensuring prudent use of antimicrobials and consequently they should prescribe the antimicrobial medicinal products based on their knowledge of antimicrobial resistance, their epidemiological and clinical knowledge and their understanding of the risk factors for the individual animal or group of animals. In addition, the veterinarians should respect their professional code of conduct. Veterinarians should ensure that they are not in a situation of conflict of interest when prescribing medicinal products, while recognising their legitimate activity of retail in accordance with national law. In particular, veterinarians should not to be influenced, directly or indirectly, by economic incentives when prescribing those medicinal products. Furthermore, the supply of veterinary medicinal products by veterinarians should be restricted to the amount required for treatment of the animals under their care. (48) The prudent use of antimicrobials is a cornerstone in addressing antimicrobial resistance. All the stakeholders concerned should together promote prudent use of antimicrobials. It is therefore important that guidance on the prudent use of antimicrobials in veterinary medicine be taken into account and further elaborated. The identification of risk factors and the development of criteria for the initiation of administration of antimicrobials, as well as the identification of alternative measures, could help in avoiding the unnecessary use of antimicrobial medicinal products, including through metaphylaxis. In addition, Member States should be allowed to take further restrictive measures to implement national policy on the prudent use of antimicrobials, provided that those measures do not unduly restrict the functioning of the internal market. (49) It is important to consider the international dimension of the development of antimicrobial resistance when assessing the benefit-risk balance of certain veterinary antimicrobials in the Union. Antimicrobial resistant organisms can spread to humans and animals in the Union and third countries through consumption of products of animal origin from the Union or from third countries, from direct contact with animals or humans or by other means.
(4) Where a certificate of suitability has been issued by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare for a starting material, active substance or excipient, that certificate constitutes the reference to the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia. (5) Where a certificate of suitability is referred to, the manufacturer shall give an assurance in writing to the applicant that the manufacturing process has not been modified since the granting of the certificate of suitability by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare. In case the field 'box of access' in the certificate is completed and signed, that requirement shall be deemed to be fulfilled without the need for additional assurance. (6) Certificates of analysis shall be presented for the starting materials in order to demonstrate compliance with the defined specification. II.2C1. Active substance(s) 
(1) The required data shall be submitted in one of the three ways as detailed in points (2) to (4). (2) The following details shall be submitted: (a) 
information on the identity, structure and a list of physicochemical and other relevant properties of the active substance shall be provided, in particular physicochemical properties that potentially affect the safety and efficacy of the active substance. Where relevant, evidence of molecular structure shall include the schematic amino acid sequence and relative molecular mass; (b) 
information on the manufacturing process shall include a description of the active substance manufacturing process that represents the applicant's commitment for the manufacture of the active substance. All materials needed in order to manufacture the active substance(s) shall be listed, identifying where each material is used in the process. Information on the quality and control of those materials shall be provided. Information demonstrating that materials meet standards which are appropriate for their intended use shall be provided; (c) 
information on quality control shall contain tests (including acceptance criteria) carried out at every critical step, information on the quality and control of intermediates and process validation and/or evaluation studies as appropriate. It shall also contain validation data for the analytical methods applied to the active substance, where appropriate; (d) 
information on impurities shall indicate predictable impurities together with the levels and nature of observed impurities. It shall also contain information on the safety of those impurities where relevant. (3) Active Substance Master File
For a non-biological active substance, the applicant may arrange for the information on active substance in point (2) to be supplied directly to the competent authorities by the manufacturer of the active substance as an Active Substance Master File. In this case, the manufacturer of the active substance shall provide the applicant with all the data (applicant's part of the Active Substance Master File) which may be necessary for the latter to take responsibility for the veterinary medicinal product. A copy of the data provided by the active substance manufacturer to the applicant shall be included in the medicinal product dossier. The manufacturer of the active substance shall confirm in writing to the applicant that he shall ensure batch-to-batch consistency and not modify the manufacturing process or specifications without informing the applicant. (4) Certificate of suitability issued by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare
The certificate of suitability and any additional data relevant to the dosage form not covered by the certificate of suitability shall be provided.II.2C1.1. Active substances listed in pharmacopoeias
(1) Active substances fulfilling the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia or, in the absence of a European Pharmacopoeia monograph, the pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States shall be deemed to comply sufficiently with Article 8. In this case the description of the analytical methods and procedures shall be replaced in each relevant section by an appropriate reference to the pharmacopoeia in question. (2) In cases where a specification contained in a monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia or in the national pharmacopoeia of a Member State is insufficient to ensure the quality of the substance, the competent authorities may request more appropriate specifications from the applicant, including acceptance criteria for specific impurities with validated test procedures. (3) The competent authorities shall inform the authorities responsible for the pharmacopoeia in question. The marketing authorisation holder shall provide the authorities of that pharmacopoeia with the details of the alleged insufficiency and the additional specifications applied. II.2C1.2. Active substances not listed in a pharmacopoeia
(1) Active substances which are not listed in any pharmacopoeia shall be described in the form of a monograph under the following headings: (a) 
the name of the constituent, meeting the requirements of Part II.2A1, point (2) shall be supplemented by any trade or scientific synonyms; (b) 
the definition of the substance, set down in a form similar to that used in the European Pharmacopoeia, shall be accompanied by any necessary explanatory evidence, in particular concerning the molecular structure. Where substances may only be described by their manufacturing method, the description shall be sufficiently detailed to characterise a substance which is constant both on its composition and in its effects; (c) 
methods of identification may be described in the form of complete techniques as used for production of the substance, and in the form of tests which ought to be carried out as a routine matter; (d) 
purity tests shall be described in relation to each individual predictable impurity, especially those which may have a harmful effect, and, if necessary, those which, having regard to the combination of substances to which the application refers, might adversely affect the stability of the medicinal product or distort analytical results; (e) 
tests and acceptance criteria to control parameters relevant to the finished product, such as sterility shall be described and methods shall be validated where relevant; (f) 
with regard to complex substances of plant or animal origin, a distinction shall be made between the case where multiple pharmacological effects render chemical, physical or biological control of the principal components necessary, and the case of substances containing one or more groups of principles having similar activity, in respect of which an overall method of assay may be accepted. (2) Those data shall demonstrate that the proposed set of test procedures is sufficient to control the quality of the active substance from the defined source. II.2C1.3. Physicochemical characteristics liable to affect bioavailability
The following data concerning active substances shall be provided as part of the general description of the active substances if the bioavailability of the veterinary medicinal product depends on them: (a) 
crystalline form and solubility; (b) 
particle size; (c) 
state of hydration; (d) 
oil/water coefficient of partition; (e) 
pK/pH values. Points (a) to (c) are not applicable to substances used solely in solution.II.2C2. Excipients
(1) Excipients fulfilling the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia or, in the absence of a European Pharmacopoeia monograph, the pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States shall be deemed to comply sufficiently with Article 8. In that case, the description of the analytical methods and procedures shall be replaced in each relevant section by an appropriate reference to the pharmacopoeia in question. Where appropriate, additional tests to control parameters such as particle size, sterility, and/or residual solvents, shall supplement the requirements of the monograph.
Antimicrobial resistant organisms can spread to humans and animals in the Union and third countries through consumption of products of animal origin from the Union or from third countries, from direct contact with animals or humans or by other means. Therefore, measures restricting the use of veterinary antimicrobials in the Union should be based on scientific advice and should be considered in the context of cooperation with third countries and international organisations. For those reasons, it should also be ensured, in a non-discriminatory and proportionate manner, that operators in third countries respect certain basic conditions relating to antimicrobial resistance for animals and products of animal origin exported to the Union. Any such action should respect Union obligations under relevant international agreements. This should contribute to the international fight against antimicrobial resistance, in particular in line with the WHO Global Action Plan and the OIE Strategy on Antimicrobial Resistance and the Prudent Use of Antimicrobials. (50) There is still a lack of sufficiently detailed and comparable data at Union level to determine the trends and identify possible risk factors that could lead to the development of measures to limit the risk from antimicrobial resistance and to monitor the effect of measures already introduced. It is therefore important to continue the collection of such data and further develop it in line with a stepwise approach. That data, when available, should be analysed with data on the use of antimicrobials in humans and data on antimicrobial resistant organisms found in animals, humans and food. To ensure that the data collected can be used effectively, appropriate technical rules should be laid down concerning the collection and the exchange of data. The Member States should be responsible for collecting data on the sales and use of antimicrobials used in animals under the coordination of the Agency. It should be possible to make further adjustments to the obligations on data collection when the procedures in the Member States for the collection of data on sales and use of antimicrobials are sufficiently reliable. (51) The majority of the veterinary medicinal products on the market have been authorised under national procedures. The lack of harmonisation of summary of product characteristics for veterinary medicinal products authorised nationally in more than one Member State creates additional and unnecessary barriers for the circulation of veterinary medicinal products within the Union. It is necessary to harmonise those summaries of product characteristics at least in regard to dosage, uses and warnings of the veterinary medicinal products. (52) In order to reduce administrative burden and maximise the availability of veterinary medicinal products in the Member States, simplified rules should be laid down as to how their packaging and labelling are to be presented. The textual information provided should be reduced and, if possible, pictograms and abbreviations could be developed and used as an alternative to such textual information. Pictograms and abbreviations should be standardised across the Union. Care should be taken so that those rules do not jeopardise public or animal health or environmental safety. (53) In addition, Member States should be able to choose the language of the text used in the summary of product characteristics, labelling and package leaflet of veterinary medicinal products authorised in their territory. (54) With a view to increasing availability of veterinary medicinal products in the Union, it should be possible to grant more than one marketing authorisation for a specific veterinary medicinal product to the same marketing authorisation holder in the same Member State. In that case, all product-related characteristics of the veterinary medicinal product and data in support of the applications for the veterinary medicinal product should be identical. However, multiple applications for a specific veterinary medicinal product should not be used to circumvent the principles of mutual recognition, and therefore this type of applications in different Member States should take place within the procedural framework for mutual recognition. (55) Pharmacovigilance rules are necessary for the protection of public and animal health and of the environment. Collection of information on suspected adverse events should contribute to the good usage of veterinary medicinal products. (56) Environmental incidents that are observed following the administration of a veterinary medicinal product to an animal should also be reported as suspected adverse events. Such incidents may consist, for example, in a significant increase of soil contamination by a substance to levels considered harmful for the environment or in high concentrations of veterinary medicinal products in drinking water produced from surface water. (57) The competent authorities, the Agency and marketing authorisation holders should encourage and facilitate the reporting of suspected adverse events, in particular by veterinarians and other health care professionals, where such events occur during the conduct of their duties, as well as facilitate that veterinarians receive appropriate feedback on reporting made. (58) In the light of experience, it has become clear that it is necessary to take measures to improve the operation of the pharmacovigilance system. That system should integrate and monitor data at Union level. It is in the interest of the Union to ensure that the veterinary pharmacovigilance systems for all authorised veterinary medicinal products are consistent. At the same time, it is necessary to take account of changes arising as a result of international harmonisation of definitions, terminology and technological developments in the field of pharmacovigilance. (59) Holders of marketing authorisations should be responsible for continuously carrying out pharmacovigilance in order to ensure the continuous evaluation of the benefit-risk balance of the veterinary medicinal products they place on the market. They should collect reports on suspected adverse events relating to their veterinary medicinal products, including those concerning use outside the terms of the granted marketing authorisation. (60) It is necessary to increase the shared use of resources among authorities and to enhance efficiency of the pharmacovigilance system. Data collected should be uploaded to a single reporting point to ensure that the information is shared. The competent authorities should use those data to ensure the continuous assessment of the benefit-risk balance of the veterinary medicinal products that are on the market. (61) In specific cases, or from a public or animal health or environment perspective, it is necessary to complement the safety and efficacy data available at the time of authorisation with additional information following the placing of the veterinary medicinal product on the market. It should be possible, therefore, to impose the obligation to conduct post-authorisation studies on the marketing authorisation holder. (62) A pharmacovigilance database at Union level should be established to record and integrate information of suspected adverse events for all veterinary medicinal products authorised in the Union. That database should improve detection of suspected adverse events and should allow and facilitate the pharmacovigilance surveillance and work-sharing between the competent authorities. That database should include mechanisms for exchanging data with the existing national pharmacovigilance databases.
For novel packaging materials in contact with the product, information on their composition, manufacture and safety shall be presented. Specifications and, if appropriate, performance data shall be presented for any dosing or administration device supplied with the veterinary medicinal product. 1.4. Substances of biological origin
Where source materials such as microorganisms, tissues of either plant or animal origin, cells or fluids (including blood) of human or animal origin or biotechnological cell constructs are used in the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products, the origin and history of starting materials shall be described and documented. The description of the starting material shall include the manufacturing strategy, purification/inactivation procedures with their validation and all in-process control procedures designed to ensure the quality, safety and batch to batch consistency of the finished product. When cell banks are used, the cell characteristics shall be shown to have remained unchanged at the passage level used for the production and beyond. Seed materials, cell banks and pools of serum and, whenever possible, the source materials from which they are derived shall be tested for extraneous agents. When starting materials of animal or human origin are used, the measures used to ensure freedom from potentially pathogenic agents shall be described. If the presence of potentially pathogenic extraneous agents is inevitable, the material shall be used only when further processing ensures their elimination and/or inactivation, and this shall be validated. Documentation shall be supplied to demonstrate that the seed materials, cell seeds, batches of serum and other material originating from animal species relevant for the transmission of TSE comply with the Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products (12), as well as with the corresponding monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia. Certificates of Suitability issued by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare, with reference to the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia, may be used to demonstrate compliance. D. CONTROL TESTS CARRIED OUT AT INTERMEDIATE STAGES OF THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS
The dossier shall include particulars relating to the product control tests that may be carried out at an intermediate stage of the manufacturing process, with a view to ensuring the consistency of the technical characteristics and the production process. These tests are essential for checking the conformity of the veterinary medicinal product with the formula when, exceptionally, an applicant proposes an analytical method for testing the finished product which does not include the assay of all the active substances (or of all the excipient components subject to the same requirements as the active substances). The same applies where the quality control of the finished product depends on in-process control tests, particularly if the substance is essentially defined by its manufacturing method. Where an intermediate product may be stored prior to further processing or primary assembly, a shelf life for the intermediate product shall be defined on the basis of the data resulting from stability studies. E. TESTS ON THE FINISHED PRODUCT
For the control of the finished product, a batch of a finished product comprises all the units of a pharmaceutical form which are made from the same initial quantity of material and have undergone the same series of manufacturing and/or sterilisation operations or, in the case of a continuous production process, all the units manufactured in a given period of time. The application for marketing authorisation shall list those tests, which are carried out routinely on each batch of finished product. The frequency of the tests which are not carried out routinely shall be stated. Release limits shall be indicated. The dossier shall include particulars relating to control tests on the finished product at release. They shall be submitted in accordance with the following requirements. The provisions of the relevant monographs and general chapters of the European Pharmacopoeia, or failing that, of a Member State, shall be applicable to all products defined therein. If test procedures and limits other than those mentioned in the relevant monographs and general chapters of the European Pharmacopoeia, or failing this, in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State are used, this shall be justified by providing proof that the finished product would, if tested in accordance with those monographs, meet the quality requirements of that pharmacopoeia for the pharmaceutical form concerned. 1. General characteristics of the finished product
Certain tests of the general characteristics of a product shall always be included among the tests on the finished product. These tests shall, wherever applicable, relate to the control of average masses and maximum deviations, to mechanical, physical or microbiological tests, organoleptic characteristics, physical characteristics such as density, pH, refractive index. For each of these characteristics, standards and tolerance limits shall be specified by the applicant in each particular case. The conditions of the tests, where appropriate, the equipment/apparatus employed and the standards shall be described in precise details whenever they are not given in the European Pharmacopoeia or the pharmacopoeia of the Member States; the same shall apply in cases where the methods prescribed by such pharmacopoeias are not applicable. Furthermore, solid pharmaceutical forms having to be administered orally shall be subjected to in vitro studies on the liberation and dissolution rate of the active substance or substances, unless otherwise justified. Those studies shall also be carried out where administration is by another means if the competent authorities of the Member State concerned consider this necessary. 2. Identification and assay of active substance(s) 
Identification and assay of the active substance(s) shall be carried out either in a representative sample from the production batch or in a number of dosage units analysed individually. Unless there is appropriate justification, the maximum acceptable deviation in the active substance content of the finished product shall not exceed ± 5 % at the time of manufacture. On the basis of the stability tests, the manufacturer shall propose and justify maximum acceptable deviation limits in the active substance content of the finished product up to the end of the proposed shelf life. In certain cases of particularly complex mixtures, where assay of active substances which are very numerous or present in very low amounts would necessitate an intricate investigation difficult to carry out in respect of each production batch, the assay of one or more active substances in the finished product may be omitted, on the express condition that such assays are made at intermediate stages in the production process. This simplified technique may not be extended to the characterisation of the substances concerned. It shall be supplemented by a method of quantitative evaluation, enabling the competent authority to have the conformity of the medicinal product with its specification verified after it has been placed on the market. An in vivo or in vitro biological assay shall be obligatory when physico-chemical methods cannot provide adequate information on the quality of the product. Such an assay shall, whenever possible, include reference materials and statistical analysis allowing calculation of confidence limits. Where these tests cannot be carried out on the finished product, they may be performed at an intermediate stage, as late as possible in the manufacturing process.
(5) 'immunological veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product intended to be administered to an animal in order to produce active or passive immunity or to diagnose its state of immunity;
(5) 'immunological veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product intended to be administered to an animal in order to produce active or passive immunity or to diagnose its state of immunity;
That database should include mechanisms for exchanging data with the existing national pharmacovigilance databases. (63) The procedures that competent authorities and the Agency will adopt in order to evaluate the information on suspected adverse events that they receive should comply with the measures on good pharmacovigilance practice which should be adopted by the Commission and, as appropriate, be based on a common standard derived from the current Commission guidelines on pharmacovigilance for veterinary medicinal products. The evaluation performed by the competent authority or the Agency in that way may be one of the means by which it is determined whether there is any change to the benefit-risk balance of those veterinary medicinal products. It is, however, emphasised that the signal management process is the 'gold standard' for that purpose and proper attention should be given to it. That signal management process consists of tasks of signal detection, validation, confirmation, analysis and prioritisation, assessment and recommendation for action. (64) It is necessary to exercise control over the entire chain of distribution of veterinary medicinal products, from manufacture or import into the Union through supply to the end-user. Veterinary medicinal products from third countries should comply with the same requirements which apply to veterinary medicinal products manufactured in the Union, or with requirements which are recognised to be at least equivalent thereto. (65) The parallel trade in veterinary medicinal products concerns veterinary medicinal products traded from one Member State to another and is distinct from imports in that the latter are products coming from third countries into the Union. The parallel trade in veterinary medicinal products authorised under national, decentralised, mutual recognition or subsequent recognition procedure should be regulated to ensure that the principles of the free movement of goods are restricted only for the purpose of safeguarding public and animal health in a harmonised manner, and respecting the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union ('the Court of Justice'). Any administrative procedures put in place in that context should not introduce an excessive burden. In particular, any approval of a licence for such parallel trade should be based on a simplified procedure. (66) In order to facilitate the movement of veterinary medicinal products and to prevent checks carried out in one Member State being repeated in others, minimum requirements should be applied to veterinary medicinal products manufactured in, or imported from, third countries. (67) The quality of veterinary medicinal products manufactured within the Union should be guaranteed by requiring compliance with the principles of good manufacturing practice for medicinal products irrespective of their final destination. (68) The good manufacturing practice for the purpose of this Regulation should take into account the Union and international standards of animal welfare when active substances are prepared from animals. Measures to prevent or minimise discharge of active substances into the environment should be also taken into account. Any such measures should only be adopted following an evaluation of their impact. (69) In order to ensure the uniform application of principles of good manufacturing practice and good distribution practice, the compilation of Union procedures for inspections and exchange of information should serve as a basis for competent authorities when performing controls on manufacturers and wholesale distributors. (70) Although inactivated immunological veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 2(3) should be manufactured in accordance with the principles of good manufacturing practice, detailed guidelines of good manufacturing practice should specifically be prepared for those products since they are manufactured in a way that is different from industrially prepared products. That would preserve their quality without hindering their manufacturing and availability. (71) Companies should hold an authorisation to be able to distribute wholesale veterinary medicinal products and should comply with the principles of good distribution practice, so as to guarantee that such medicinal products are appropriately stored, transported and handled. It should be the responsibility of the Member States to ensure that those conditions are met. Those authorisations should be valid throughout the Union and should also be required in the case of parallel trade in veterinary medicinal products. (72) In order to ensure transparency, a database should be established at Union level for the purpose of publishing a list of wholesale distributors who have been found to comply with applicable Union legislation following an inspection by the competent authorities of a Member State. (73) The conditions governing the supply of veterinary medicinal products to the public should be harmonised in the Union. Veterinary medicinal products should only be supplied by persons authorised to do so by the Member State in which they are established. At the same time, in order to improve access to veterinary medicinal products in the Union, retailers that are authorised to supply veterinary medicinal products by the competent authority in the Member State in which they are established should be allowed to sell veterinary medicinal products not subject to a veterinary prescription at a distance to buyers in other Member States. However, taking into account that in some Member States it is current practice to sell at a distance also those veterinary medicinal products which are subject to prescription, Member States should be allowed to continue such practice under certain conditions and within their territory only. In such cases, those Member States should take appropriate measures to avoid unintended consequences of such supply and establish rules on appropriate penalties. (74) Veterinarians should always issue a veterinary prescription when supplying a veterinary medicinal product subject to a veterinary prescription only and not administering it themselves. Whenever the veterinarians administer such medicinal products themselves it should be left up to national provisions to specify whether a veterinary prescription needs to be issued. However, veterinarians should always keep records of the medicinal products that they have administered. (75) The illegal sale of veterinary medicinal products to the public at a distance may represent a threat to public and animal health, as falsified or substandard medicines may reach the public in this way. It is necessary to address that threat. Account should be taken of the fact that specific conditions for supply of medicinal products to the public have not been harmonised at Union level and, therefore, Member States can impose conditions for supplying medicinal products to the public within the limits of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). (76) When examining the compatibility with Union law of the conditions for the supply of medicinal products, the Court of Justice has recognised, in the context of medicinal products for human use, the very particular nature of medicinal products whose therapeutic effects distinguish them substantially from other goods. The Court of Justice has also held that health and life of humans rank foremost among the assets and interests protected by the TFEU and that it is for Member States to determine the level of protection which they wish to afford to public health and the way in which that level has to be achieved. Since that level may vary from one Member State to another, Member States are to be allowed some discretion as regards the conditions for the supply on their territory of medicinal products to the public.
(6) 'biological veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product where an active substance is a biological substance;
Where these tests cannot be carried out on the finished product, they may be performed at an intermediate stage, as late as possible in the manufacturing process. Where degradation occurs during manufacture of the finished product, the maximum acceptable levels of individual and total degradation products immediately following manufacture shall be indicated. Where the particulars given in Section B show that a significant overage of an active substance is employed in the manufacture of the medicinal product or where the stability data show that the assay of the active substance declines on storage, the description of the control tests on the finished product shall include, where appropriate, the chemical and, if necessary, the toxico-pharmacological investigation of the changes that this substance has undergone, and possibly the characterisation and/or assay of the degradation products. 3. Identification and assay of excipient components
An identification test and an upper and lower limit test shall be obligatory for each individual antimicrobiological preservative and for any excipient that is liable to affect the bioavailability of the active substance, unless the bioavailability is guaranteed by other appropriate tests. An identification test and an upper limit test shall be obligatory for any antioxidant and for any excipient liable to adversely affect physiological functions, with a lower limit test also included for antioxidants at time of release. 4. Safety tests
Apart from the toxico-pharmacological tests submitted with the application for marketing authorisation, particulars of safety tests, such as sterility and bacterial endotoxins, shall be included in the analytical particulars wherever such tests must be undertaken as a matter of routine in order to verify the quality of the product. F. STABILITY TEST
1. Active substances(s) 
A retest period and storage conditions for the active substance shall be specified except in the case where the active substance is the subject of a monograph in the European Pharmacopoeia and the manufacturer of the finished product fully retests the active substance immediately before its use in the manufacture of the finished product. Stability data shall be presented to support the defined retest period and storage conditions. The type of stability studies conducted, protocols used, the analytical procedures used and their validation together with the detailed results shall be presented. The stability commitment with a summary of the protocol shall be provided. However, where a Certificate of Suitability for the active substance from the proposed source is available and specifies a retest period and storage conditions, stability data for the active substance from that source are not required. 2. Finished product
A description shall be given of the investigations by which the shelf life, the recommended storage conditions and the specifications at the end of the shelf life proposed by the applicant have been determined. The type of stability studies conducted, protocols used, the analytical procedures used and their validation together with the detailed results shall be presented. Where a finished product requires reconstitution or dilution prior to administration, details of the proposed shelf life and specification for the reconstituted/diluted product are required, supported by relevant stability data. In the case of multi-dose containers, where relevant, stability data shall be presented to justify a shelf life for the product after it has been broached for the first time and an in-use specification shall be defined. Where a finished product is liable to give rise to degradation products, the applicant shall declare these and indicate the identification methods and test procedures. The conclusions shall contain the results of analyses, justifying the proposed shelf life and if appropriate, the in-use shelf life, under the recommended storage conditions and the specifications of the finished product at the end of the shelf life, and in-use shelf life if appropriate, of the finished product under these recommended storage conditions. The maximum acceptable level of individual and total degradation products at the end of shelf life shall be indicated. A study of the interaction between product and container shall be submitted wherever the risk of such interaction is regarded as possible, especially where injectable preparations are concerned. The stability commitment with a summary of the protocol shall be provided. G. OTHER INFORMATION
Information relating to the quality of the veterinary medicinal product not covered in the previous sections may be included in the dossier. For medicated premixes (products intended for incorporation into medicated feedingstuffs), information shall be provided on inclusion rates, instructions for incorporation, homogeneity in-feed, compatibility/suitable feedingstuffs, stability in-feed, and the proposed in-feed shelf life. A specification for the medicated feedingstuffs, manufactured using these pre-mixes in accordance with the recommended instructions for use shall also be provided. PART 3
Safety and residues tests
The particulars and documents which shall accompany the application for marketing authorisation pursuant to the second and fourth indents of Article 12(3)(j) shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements below. A. SAFETY TESTS
Chapter I
Performance of tests
The safety documentation shall show: (a) the potential toxicity of the veterinary medicinal product and any dangerous or undesirable effects which may occur under the proposed conditions of use in animals; these should be evaluated in relation to the severity of the pathological condition concerned; (b) the potential harmful effects to man of residues of the veterinary medicinal product or substance in foodstuffs obtained from treated animals and what difficulties these residues may create in the industrial processing of foodstuffs; (c) the potential risks which may result from the exposure of human beings to the veterinary medicinal product, for example during its administration to the animal; (d) the potential risks to the environment resulting from the use of the veterinary medicinal product. All results shall be reliable and valid generally. Whenever appropriate, mathematical and statistical procedures shall be used in designing the experimental methods and in evaluating the results. Additionally, information shall be provided regarding the therapeutic potential of the product and about the hazards connected with its use. In some cases it may be necessary to test the metabolites of the parent compound where these represent the residues of concern. An excipient used in the pharmaceutical field for the first time shall be treated like an active substance. 1. Precise identification of the product and of its active substance(s) 
—
international non-proprietary name (INN),
—
International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry Name (IUPAC),
—
Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) number,
—
therapeutic, pharmacological and chemical classification,
—
synonyms and abbreviations,
—
structural formula,
—
molecular formula,
—
molecular weight,
—
degree of impurity,
—
qualitative and quantitative composition of impurities,
—
description of physical properties,
—
melting point,
—
boiling point,
—
vapour pressure,
—
solubility in water and organic solvents expressed in g/l, with indication of temperature,
—
density,
—
spectra of refraction, rotation, etc.,
—
formulation of the product. 2. Pharmacology
Pharmacological studies are of fundamental importance in clarifying the mechanisms by which the veterinary medicinal product produces its therapeutic effects and therefore pharmacological studies conducted in experimental and target species of animal shall be included in Part 4. However, pharmacological studies may also assist in the understanding of toxicological phenomena.
(6) 'biological veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product where an active substance is a biological substance;
Where appropriate, additional tests to control parameters such as particle size, sterility, and/or residual solvents, shall supplement the requirements of the monograph. (2) In the absence of a pharmacopoeial monograph a specification shall be proposed and justified. The requirements for specifications as set out in Part II.2C1.2(1) points (a) to (e) for the active substance shall be followed. The proposed methods and their supporting validation data shall be presented. (3) A declaration shall be submitted to confirm that colouring matters for inclusion in veterinary medicinal products satisfy the requirements of Directive 2009/35/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (
16
) except where the application for a marketing authorisation concerns certain veterinary medicinal products for topical use, such as medicated collars and ear tags. (4) A declaration shall be submitted to confirm that colouring matters used meet the purity criteria laid down in Commission Regulation (EU) No 231/2012 (
17
). (5) For novel excipients, that is to say excipient(s) used for the first time in the Union in a veterinary medicinal product or by a new route of administration, details of manufacture, characterisation, and controls, with cross references to support both clinical and non-clinical safety data shall be provided. For colouring matters, the declarations of compliance in points (3) and (4) shall be considered sufficient. II.2C3. Packaging (containers and closure systems)
II. 2C3.1. Active substance
(1) Information on the container and its closure system for the active substance including the identity of each immediate packaging material and their specifications shall be given. The level of information required shall be determined by the physical state (liquid, solid) of the active substance. (2) Where a certificate of suitability for the active substance from the proposed source is submitted and specifies a container and its closure system, the detailed information on these for the active substance from that source may be replaced by a reference to the valid certificate of suitability. (3) Where an Active Substance Master File from the proposed source is submitted and specifies a container and its closure system, the detailed information on these for the active substance from that source may be replaced by a reference to the Active Substance Master File. II. 2C3.2. Finished product
(1) Information on the container and its closure system and any device for the finished product including the identity of each immediate packaging material and their specifications shall be given. The level of information required shall be determined by the route of administration of the veterinary medicinal product and the physical state (liquid, solid) of the dosage form. (2) In the absence of a pharmacopoeial monograph, a specification shall be proposed and justified for the packaging material. (3) For packaging materials that are used for the first time in the Union and that are in contact with the product, information on their composition, manufacture and safety shall be presented. II.2C4. Substances of biological origin
(1) Information on the source, processing, characterisation and control of all materials of biological origin (human, animal, herbal or from microorganisms) used in the manufacture of the veterinary medicinal products shall be provided, including viral safety data, in accordance with relevant guidelines. (2) Documentation shall be supplied to demonstrate that materials originating from animal species relevant for the transmission of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE) comply with the Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products, as well as with the corresponding monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia. Certificates of Suitability issued by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare, with reference to the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia, may be used to demonstrate compliance. II.2D. Control tests carried out on isolated intermediates during the manufacturing process
(1) For the purposes of this section, 'isolated intermediate' shall mean partly processed material that may be stored for a defined amount of time and that shall undergo further processing step(s) before it becomes finished product. (2) A specification shall be set for each intermediate and the analytical methods shall be described and validated, if applicable. (3) Information on the primary packaging of the intermediate product shall be provided if different from that for the finished product. (4) A shelf life and storage conditions for the intermediate product shall be defined on the basis of the data resulting from stability studies. II.2E. Control tests on the finished product
(1) For the control of the finished product, a batch of a finished product comprises all the units of a pharmaceutical form which are made from the same initial quantity of material and have undergone the same series of manufacturing and/or sterilisation operations. In case of continuous manufacture, the batch size may be expressed in terms of a period of time or a quantity of product, and may be expressed as ranges. (2) The tests, which are carried out on the finished product shall be listed. A justification for the proposed specification shall be provided. The frequency of the tests which are not carried out routinely shall be stated and justified. Acceptance criteria for release shall be indicated. (3) The dossier shall include particulars relating to control tests on the finished product at release and their validation. They shall be submitted in accordance with the following requirements. (4) If test procedures and acceptance criteria other than those mentioned in the relevant monographs and general chapters of the European Pharmacopoeia, or failing this, in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State are used, those procedures and criteria shall be justified by providing proof that the finished product would, if tested in accordance with those monographs, meet the quality requirements of that pharmacopoeia for the pharmaceutical form concerned. II.2E1. General characteristics of the finished product
(1) Certain tests of the general characteristics of a product shall always be included among the tests on the finished product. Those tests shall, wherever applicable, relate to the control of average masses/volumes and maximum deviations, to mechanical, physical tests, visual appearance, physical characteristics such as, pH or particle size. For each of those characteristics, standards and acceptance criteria shall be specified by the applicant. (2) The conditions of the tests, where appropriate, the equipment/apparatus employed and the standards shall be described in sufficient detail whenever they are not given in the European Pharmacopoeia or the pharmacopoeia of a Member State; the same shall apply in cases where the methods prescribed by such pharmacopoeias are not applicable. II.2E2. Identification and assay of active substance(s) 
(1) Identification and assay of the active substance(s) shall be carried out either in a representative sample from the production batch or in a number of dosage units analysed individually. (2) Unless there is appropriate justification, the maximum acceptable deviation in the active substance content of the finished product shall not exceed ± 5 % at the time of manufacture. (3) In certain cases of particularly complex mixtures, where assay of active substances which are very numerous or present in very low amounts would necessitate an intricate investigation difficult to carry out in respect of each production batch, the assay of one or more active substances in the finished product may be omitted, on the express condition that such assays are made at intermediate stages in the production process.
(7) 'biological substance' means a substance that is produced by or extracted from a biological source and that needs for its characterisation and the determination of its quality a combination of physico-chemical-biological testing, together with knowledge of the production process and its control;
Since that level may vary from one Member State to another, Member States are to be allowed some discretion as regards the conditions for the supply on their territory of medicinal products to the public. Member States should be able, therefore, to subject the supply of medicinal products offered for sale at a distance by means of information society services to conditions justified by the protection of public or animal health. Such conditions should not unduly restrict the functioning of the internal market. In that context, Member States should be able to subject the supply of veterinary medicinal products offered for retail to stricter conditions justified by the protection of public or animal health or of environment, provided that those conditions are proportionate to the risk and do not unduly restrict the functioning of the internal market. (77) In order to ensure high standards and safety of the veterinary medicinal products offered for sale at a distance, the public should be assisted in identifying websites which are legally offering such medicinal products. A common logo should be established, recognisable throughout the Union, while allowing for the identification of the Member State in which the person offering veterinary medicinal products for sale at a distance is established. The Commission should develop the design for such a common logo. Websites offering veterinary medicinal products for sale at a distance to the public should be linked to the website of the competent authority concerned. The websites of the competent authorities of Member States, as well as that of the Agency, should give an explanation of the use of that common logo. All those websites should be linked in order to provide comprehensive information to the public. (78) Collection systems for the disposal of waste veterinary medicinal products should continue to be in place in the Member States in order to control any risk that such products might raise with regard to the protection of human and animal health or the environment. (79) Advertising, even of medicinal products not subject to a veterinary prescription, could affect public and animal health and distort competition. Therefore, advertising of veterinary medicinal products should meet certain criteria. Persons qualified to prescribe or supply veterinary medicinal products can properly evaluate the information available in advertising because of their knowledge, training and experience in animal health. The advertising of veterinary medicinal products to persons who cannot properly assess the risk associated with their use may lead to medicinal product misuse or overconsumption which is liable to harm public or animal health, or the environment. However, in order to preserve the animal health status in their territory, Member States should be able under restricted conditions to allow advertising of immunological veterinary medicinal products also to professional animal keepers. (80) With regard to the advertising of veterinary medicinal products, Member States' experience has shown that it is necessary to put emphasis on the distinction between feed and biocidal products, on the one hand, and veterinary medicinal products, on the other, because that distinction is often misrepresented in advertising. (81) The rules of advertisement in this Regulation are to be seen as specific rules that complement the general rules in Directive 2006/114/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (11). (82) Where medicinal products are authorised within a Member State and have been prescribed in that Member State by a veterinarian for an individual animal or group of animals, it should in principle be possible for that veterinary prescription to be recognised and for the medicinal product to be dispensed in another Member State. The removal of regulatory and administrative barriers to such recognition should not affect any professional or ethical duty for veterinarians to refuse to dispense the medicinal product stated in the prescription. (83) The implementation of the principle of recognition of veterinary prescriptions should be facilitated by the adoption of a model format for veterinary prescription, listing the essential information necessary to ensure the safe and efficacious use of the medicinal product. Nothing should prevent Member States from having further elements in their veterinary prescriptions, as long as this does not prevent veterinary prescriptions from other Member States from being recognised. (84) Information on veterinary medicinal products is essential in order to enable health professionals, authorities and companies make informed decisions. A key aspect is the creation of a Union database that should collate information on marketing authorisations granted in the Union. That database should enhance overall transparency, streamline and facilitate the flow of information between authorities, and prevent multiple reporting requirements. (85) The verification of compliance with the legal requirements through controls is of fundamental importance to ensure that the objectives of this Regulation are effectively achieved across the Union. Therefore, the competent authorities of the Member States should have the power to perform inspections at all stages of production, distribution and use of veterinary medicinal products. In order to preserve the effectiveness of the inspections, the competent authorities should have the possibility to perform unannounced inspections. (86) The frequency of controls should be established by the competent authorities having regard to the risk and to the level of compliance expected in the different situations. That approach should allow those competent authorities to allocate resources where the risk is the highest. In some cases, however, controls should be performed irrespective of the level of risk or expected non-compliance, for example prior to granting manufacturing authorisations. (87) In certain cases, failures in Member States' control system can substantially hinder the achievement of the objectives of this Regulation and may lead to the emergence of risks to public and animal health and the environment. To ensure a harmonised approach to controls throughout the Union, the Commission should be able to carry out audits in the Member States to verify the functioning of national control systems. Those audits should be carried out so as to avoid any unnecessary administrative burden and, as far as possible, be coordinated with Member States and with any other Commission audits to be carried out under Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council (12). (88) In order to ensure transparency, impartiality and consistency in the level of enforcement activities by Member States, it is necessary for Member States to set up an appropriate framework for penalties with a view to imposing effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties for non-compliance with this Regulation, as non-compliance can result in damage to public and animal health and the environment. (89) Companies and authorities are frequently confronted with the need to distinguish between veterinary medicinal products, feed additives, biocidal products and other products. In order to avoid inconsistencies in the treatment of such products, to increase legal certainty, and to facilitate the decision-making process by Member States, a coordination group of Member States should be established, and among other tasks it should provide on a case-by-case basis a recommendation as to whether a product falls within the definition of a veterinary medicinal product. In order to ensure legal certainty, the Commission may decide whether a specific product is a veterinary medicinal product.
(3) In certain cases of particularly complex mixtures, where assay of active substances which are very numerous or present in very low amounts would necessitate an intricate investigation difficult to carry out in respect of each production batch, the assay of one or more active substances in the finished product may be omitted, on the express condition that such assays are made at intermediate stages in the production process. That simplified technique may not be extended to the characterisation of the substances concerned. It shall be supplemented by a method of quantitative evaluation, enabling the competent authority to have the conformity of the medicinal product with its specification verified after it has been placed on the market. (4) An in vivo or in vitro biological assay shall be obligatory when physicochemical methods cannot provide adequate information on the quality of the product. Such an assay shall, whenever possible, include reference materials and statistical analysis allowing calculation of confidence limits. Where those tests cannot be carried out on the finished product, they may be performed at an intermediate stage, as late as possible in the manufacturing process. (5) The maximum acceptable levels of individual and total degradation products immediately following manufacture shall be indicated. The rationale for the inclusion or exclusion of degradation products in the specification shall be presented. II.2E3. Identification and assay of excipient components
An identification test and an upper and lower limit test shall be obligatory for each individual antimicrobial preservative and for any excipient that is liable to affect the bioavailability of the active substance, unless the bioavailability is guaranteed by other appropriate tests. An identification test and an upper limit test shall be obligatory for any antioxidant and for any excipient liable to adversely affect physiological functions, with a lower limit test also included for antioxidants at time of release.II.2E4. Microbiological controls
Particulars of microbiological tests, such as sterility and bacterial endotoxins, shall be included in the analytical particulars wherever such tests shall be undertaken as a matter of routine in order to verify the quality of the product.II.2E5. Batch-to-batch consistency
In order to ensure the quality of the product is consistent from batch to batch and to demonstrate conformity with the specification, batch data shall be provided giving the results for all tests performed in general on [3] batches manufactured at the proposed manufacturing site(s) according to the described production process.II.2E6. Other controls
Any other test considered necessary to confirm the quality of the medicinal product shall be controlled.II.2F. Stability test
II.2F1. Active substance(s) 
(1) A retest period and storage conditions for the active substance shall be specified except when the manufacturer of the finished product fully retests the active substance immediately before its use in the manufacture of the finished product. (2) Stability data shall be presented to provide evidence on how the quality of an active substance varies with time under the influence of a variety of environmental factors and to support the defined retest period and storage conditions, if applicable. The type of stability studies conducted, protocols used, the analytical procedures used and their validation together with the detailed results shall be presented. (3) Where a certificate of suitability for the active substance from the proposed source is available and specifies a retest period and storage conditions, stability data for the active substance from that source may be replaced by a reference to the valid certificate of suitability. (4) Where an Active Substance Master File from the proposed source is submitted and specifies stability data, the detailed information on the stability for the active substance from that source may be replaced by a reference to the Active Substance Master File. II.2F2. Finished product
(1) A description shall be given of the investigations by which the shelf life, the recommended storage conditions and the specifications at the end of the shelf life proposed by the applicant have been determined. (2) The type of stability studies conducted, protocols used, the analytical procedures used and their validation together with the detailed results shall be presented. (3) Where a finished product requires reconstitution or dilution prior to administration, details of the proposed shelf life and specification for the reconstituted/diluted product are required, supported by relevant stability data. (4) In the case of multi-dose containers, where relevant, stability data shall be presented to justify a shelf life for the product after it has been broached or opened for the first time and an in-use specification shall be defined. (5) Where a finished product is liable to give rise to degradation products, the applicant shall declare those products and indicate the identification methods and test procedures used. (6) Where the stability data show that the assay of the active substance declines on storage, the description of the control tests on the finished product shall include, where appropriate, the chemical and, if necessary, the toxico-pharmacological investigation of the changes that this substance has undergone, and possibly the characterisation and/or assay of the degradation products. (7) The maximum acceptable level of individual and total degradation products at the end of shelf life shall be indicated and justified. (8) On the basis of the stability test results, the tests and their acceptance criteria, that are carried out on the finished product over the course of the shelf life shall be listed and justified. (9) The conclusions shall contain the results of analyses, justifying the proposed shelf life and if appropriate, the in-use shelf life, under the recommended storage conditions. (10) Additionally, for veterinary medicinal products intended for incorporation into feed, information shall be provided on the stability and the proposed shelf life after incorporation into feed. A specification for the medicated feed manufactured using those veterinary medicinal products in accordance with the recommended instructions for use shall also be provided. II.2G. Other information
Information relating to the quality of the veterinary medicinal product not covered elsewhere in this Part may be included in the dossier under this point.II.3 
Part 3: Safety documentation (safety and residues tests)
(1) Each study report shall include: (a) 
a copy of the study plan (protocol); (b) 
a statement of compliance with good laboratory practice, where applicable; (c) 
a description of the methods, apparatus and materials used; (d) 
a description and justification of the test system; (e) 
a description of the results obtained, in sufficient detail, to allow the results to be critically evaluated independently of their interpretation by the author; (f) 
a statistical analysis of the results where appropriate; (g) 
a discussion of the results, with comment on observed and no-observed-effect levels, and on any unusual findings; (h) 
the name of the laboratory; (i) 
the name of the study director; (j) 
signature and date; (k) 
place and period of time during which the study was undertaken; (l) 
key for abbreviations and codes, irrespective of whether they are internationally accepted or not; (m) 
description of mathematical and statistical procedures. (2) Published studies may be accepted if they contain a sufficient amount of data and sufficient details to allow an independent assessment. The experimental techniques shall be described in such detail as to allow them to be reproduced, and the investigator shall establish their validity. Summaries of studies for which detailed reports are not available shall not be accepted as valid documentation.
However, pharmacological studies may also assist in the understanding of toxicological phenomena. Moreover, where a veterinary medicinal product produces pharmacological effects in the absence of a toxic response, or at doses lower than those required to elicit toxicity, these pharmacological effects shall be taken into account during the evaluation of the safety of the veterinary medicinal product. Therefore the safety documentation shall always be preceded by details of pharmacological investigations undertaken in laboratory animals and all relevant information observed during clinical studies in the target animal. 2.1. Pharmacodynamics
Information on the mechanism of action of the active substance(s) shall be provided, together with information on primary and secondary pharmacodynamic effects in order to assist in the understanding of any adverse effects in the animal studies. 2.2. Pharmacokinetics
Data on the fate of the active substance and its metabolites in the species used in the toxicological studies shall be provided, covering absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME). The data shall be related to the dose/effect findings in the pharmacological and toxicological studies, to determine adequate exposure. Comparison with the pharmacokinetic data obtained in the studies on the target species, Part 4, Chapter I, Section A.2, shall be included in Part 4 in order to determine the relevance of the results obtained in the toxicology studies for the toxicity to the target species. 3. Toxicology
The documentation on toxicology shall follow the guidance published by the Agency on the general approach to testing and guidance on particular studies. This guidance includes: (1) basic tests required for all new veterinary medicinal products for use in food-producing animals in order to assess the safety of any residues present in food for human consumption; (2) additional tests that may be required depending on specific toxicological concerns such as those associated with the structure, class, and mode of action of the active substance(s); (3) special tests which might assist in the interpretation of data obtained in the basic or additional tests. The studies shall be conducted with the active substance(s), not with the formulated product. Where studies of the formulated product are required, this is specified in the text below. 3.1. Single-dose toxicity
Single-dose toxicity studies may be used to predict: —
the possible effects of acute overdosage in the target species,
—
the possible effects of accidental administration to humans,
—
the doses which may usefully be employed in the repeat dose studies. Single-dose toxicity studies should reveal the acute toxic effects of the substance and the time course for their onset and remission. The studies to be carried out shall be selected with a view to providing information on user safety, e.g. if substantial exposure by inhalation or dermal contact of the user of the veterinary medicinal product is anticipated, those routes of exposure shall be studied. 3.2. Repeat-dose toxicity
Repeat-dose toxicity tests are intended to reveal any physiological and/or pathological changes induced by repeated administration of the active substance or combination of active substances under examination, and to determine how these changes are related to dosage. In the case of pharmacologically active substances or veterinary medicinal products intended solely for use in non-food-producing animals, a repeat-dose toxicity study in one species of experimental animal shall normally be sufficient. This study may be replaced by a study conducted in the target animal. The frequency and route of administration, and the duration of the study shall be chosen having regard to the proposed conditions of clinical use. The investigator shall give his reasons for the extent and duration of the trials and the dosages chosen. In the case of substances or veterinary medicinal products intended for use in food-producing animals, repeat-dose (90 day) toxicity testing shall be performed in a rodent and a non-rodent species in order to identify target organs and toxicological endpoints and identify the appropriate species and the dose levels to be used in chronic toxicity testing, if appropriate. The investigator shall give his reasons for the choice of species, having regard to the available knowledge of the metabolism of the product in animals and man. The test substance shall be administered orally. The investigator shall clearly state and give his reasons for the method and frequency of administration and the length of the trials. The maximum dose should normally be selected so as to bring harmful effects to light. The lowest dose level should not produce any evidence of toxicity. Evaluation of the toxic effects shall be based on observation of behaviour, growth, haematology and physiological tests, especially those relating to the excretory organs, and also on autopsy reports and accompanying histological data. The choice and range of each group of tests depends on the species of animal used and the state of scientific knowledge at the time. In the case of new combinations of known substances which have been investigated in accordance with the provisions of this Directive, the repeat-dose tests may, except where toxicity tests have demonstrated potentiation or novel toxic effects, be suitably modified by the investigator, who shall submit his reasons for such modifications. 3.3. Tolerance in the target species
A summary shall be provided of any signs of intolerance which have been observed during studies conducted, usually with the final formulation, in the target species in accordance with the requirements of Part 4, Chapter I, Section B. The studies concerned, the dosages at which the intolerance occurred and the species and breeds concerned shall be identified. Details of any unexpected physiological changes shall also be provided. The full reports of these studies shall be included in Part 4. 3.4. Reproductive toxicity including developmental toxicity
3.4.1. Study of the effects on reproduction
The purpose of this study is to identify possible impairment of male or female reproductive function or harmful effects on progeny resulting from the administration of the veterinary medicinal products or substance under investigation. In the case of pharmacologically active substances or veterinary medicinal products intended for use in food-producing animals, the study of the effects on reproduction shall be performed in the form of a multi-generation reproduction study, designed to detect any effect on mammalian reproduction. These include effects on male and female fertility, mating, conception, implantation, ability to maintain pregnancy to term, parturition, lactation, survival, growth and development of the offspring from birth through to weaning, sexual maturity and the subsequent reproductive function of the offspring as adults. At least three dose levels shall be used. The maximum dose should be selected so as to bring harmful effects to light. The lowest dose level should not produce any evidence of toxicity. 3.4.2. Study of developmental toxicity
In the case of pharmacologically active substances or veterinary medicinal products intended for use in food-producing animals, tests on developmental toxicity shall be performed. These tests shall be designed to detect any adverse effects on the pregnant female and development of the embryo and foetus consequent to exposure of the female from implantation through gestation to the day before predicted birth. Such adverse effects include enhanced toxicity relative to that observed in non-pregnant females, embryo-foetal death, altered foetal growth, and structural changes to the foetus. A developmental toxicity test in the rat is required. Depending on the results, a study in a second species may have to be performed, in accordance with established guidance.
(7) 'biological substance' means a substance that is produced by or extracted from a biological source and that needs for its characterisation and the determination of its quality a combination of physico-chemical-biological testing, together with knowledge of the production process and its control;
Depending on the results, a study in a second species may have to be performed, in accordance with established guidance. In the case of pharmacologically active substances or veterinary medicinal products not intended for use in food producing animals, a study of developmental toxicity shall be performed in at least one species, which may be the target species, if the product is intended for use in female animals which may be used for breeding. However, where the use of the veterinary medicinal product would result in significant exposure to users, standard developmental toxicity studies shall be performed. 3.5. Genotoxicity
Tests for genotoxic potential shall be performed to reveal changes which a substance may cause in the genetic material of cells. Any substance intended to be included in a veterinary medicinal product for the first time must be assessed for genotoxic properties. A standard battery of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests in accordance with established guidance shall usually be carried out on the active substance(s). In some cases, it may also be necessary to test one or more metabolites that occur as residues in foodstuffs. 3.6. Carcinogenicity
The decision on whether carcinogenicity testing is required shall take into account the results of genotoxicity tests, structure-activity relationships and the findings in systemic toxicity tests that may be relevant to neoplastic lesions in longer term studies. Any known species specificity of the mechanism of toxicity shall be considered, as well as any differences in metabolism between the test species, target animal species, and human beings. Where carcinogenicity testing is necessary, generally a two-year rat study and an 18-month mouse study are required. With appropriate scientific justification, carcinogenicity studies may be carried out in one rodent species, preferably the rat. 3.7. Exceptions
Where a veterinary medicinal product is intended for topical use, systemic absorption shall be investigated in the target animal species. If it is proved that systemic absorption is negligible, the repeated dose toxicity tests, the tests for reproductive toxicity and the carcinogenicity tests may be omitted, unless: —
under the intended conditions of use laid down, oral ingestion of the veterinary medicinal product by the animal is to be expected, or
—
under the intended conditions of use laid down, exposure of the user of the veterinary medicinal product by other routes than the dermal route is to be expected, or
—
the active substance or metabolites may enter foodstuffs obtained from the treated animal. 4. Other requirements
4.1. Special studies
For particular groups of substances or if the effects observed during repeated dose studies in animals include changes indicative of e.g. immunotoxicity, neurotoxicity- or, endocrine dysfunction, further testing shall be required, e.g. sensitisation studies or delayed neurotoxicity tests. Depending on the nature of the product, it may be necessary to conduct additional studies to assess the underlying mechanism of the toxic effect or the irritation potential. Such studies shall usually be conducted with the final formulation. The state of scientific knowledge and established guidance shall be taken into account when designing such studies and evaluating their results. 4.2. Microbiological properties of residues
4.2.1. Potential effects on the human gut flora
The potential microbiological risk presented by residues of antimicrobial compounds for the human intestinal flora shall be investigated in accordance with established guidance. 4.2.2. Potential effects on the microorganisms used for industrial food processing
In certain cases, it may be necessary to carry out tests to determine whether microbiologically active residues may interfere in technological processes in the industrial processing of foodstuff. 4.3. Observations in humans
Information shall be provided showing whether the pharmacologically active substances of the veterinary medicinal product are used as medicinal products in human therapy; if this is so, a compilation shall be made of all the effects observed (including adverse reactions) in humans and of their cause, to the extent that they may be important for the assessment of the safety of the veterinary medicinal product, where appropriate including results from published studies; where constituents of the veterinary medicinal products are themselves not used or are no longer used as medicinal products in human therapy, the reasons shall be stated. 4.4. Development of resistance
Data on the potential emergence of resistant bacteria of relevance for human health are necessary in the case of veterinary medicinal products. The mechanism of the development of such resistance is particularly important in this regard. Where necessary, measures to limit resistance development from the intended use of the veterinary medicinal product shall be proposed. Resistance relevant for clinical use of the product shall be addressed in accordance with Part 4. Where relevant, cross reference shall be made to the data set out in Part 4. 5. User safety
This section shall include a discussion of the effects found in the preceding sections and relate this to the type and extent of human exposure to the product with a view to formulating appropriate user warnings and other risk management measures. 6. Environmental risk assessment
6.1. Environmental risk assessment of veterinary medicinal products not containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms
An environmental risk assessment shall be performed to assess the potential harmful effects, which the use of the veterinary medicinal product may cause to the environment and to identify the risk of such effects. The assessment shall also identify any precautionary measures which may be necessary to reduce such risk. This assessment shall normally be conducted in two phases. The first phase of the assessment shall always be performed. The details of the assessment shall be provided in accordance with accepted guidance. It shall indicate the potential exposure of the environment to the product and the level of risk associated with any such exposure taking into account in particular the following items: —
the target animal species, and the proposed pattern of use,
—
the method of administration, in particular the likely extent to which the product will enter directly into environmental systems,
—
the possible excretion of the product, its active substances or relevant metabolites into the environment by treated animals; persistence in such excreta,
—
the disposal of unused veterinary medicinal product or other waste product. In the second phase, further specific investigation of the fate and effects of the product on particular ecosystems shall be conducted, in accordance with established guidance. The extent of exposure of the product to the environment, and the available information about the physical/chemical, pharmacological and/or toxicological properties of the substance(s) concerned, including metabolites in case of an identified risk, which has been obtained during the conduct of the other tests and trials required by this Directive, shall be taken into consideration. 6.2. Environmental risk assessment for veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms
In the case of a veterinary medicinal product containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms the application shall also be accompanied by the documents required under Article 2 and Part C of Directive 2001/18/EC. Chapter II
Presentation of particulars and documents
The dossier of safety tests shall include the following:
(8) 'reference veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product authorised in accordance with Article 44, 47, 49, 52, 53 or 54 as referred to in Article 5
(8) 'reference veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product authorised in accordance with Article 44, 47, 49, 52, 53 or 54 as referred to in Article 5
Summaries of studies for which detailed reports are not available shall not be accepted as valid documentation. When the substance has been previously evaluated for the establishment of maximum residues limit ('MRL') to address certain safety requirements reference may be made to the European public MRL assessment reports ('EPMARs'). Where reference to EPMAR is made there is no need to submit studies already evaluated as part of the MRL evaluation; only new studies not available for the MRL assessment shall be provided. If the route of exposure (for example, for the user) is not identical to the route used in accordance with Commission Regulation (EU) 2018/782 (
18
), new studies might be necessary. II.3A. Safety tests
(1) The safety documentation shall be adequate for assessment of: (a) 
the potential toxicity of the veterinary medicinal product and any dangerous or undesirable effects in target species which may occur under the proposed conditions of use; (b) 
the potential risks which may result from the exposure of human beings to the veterinary medicinal product, for example, during its administration to the animal; (c) 
the potential risks to the environment resulting from the use of the veterinary medicinal product. (2) In some cases it may be necessary to test the metabolites of the parent compound where these represent the residues of concern. (3) An excipient used for the first time in a veterinary medicinal product or by a new route of administration shall be treated in the same way as an active substance. II.3A1. Precise identification of the product and of its active substance(s) 
(a) 
International Non-proprietary Name (INN); (b) 
International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry Name (IUPAC); (c) 
Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) number; (d) 
therapeutic, pharmacological and chemical classification; (e) 
synonyms and abbreviations; (f) 
structural formula; (g) 
molecular formula,
(h) 
molecular weight; (i) 
degree of purity; (j) 
qualitative and quantitative composition of impurities; (k) 
description of physical properties: (i) 
melting point,
(ii) 
boiling point,
(iii) 
vapour pressure,
(iv) 
solubility in water and organic solvents expressed in g/l, with indication of temperature,
(v) 
density,
(vi) 
refraction of light, optical rotation, etc.; (l) 
formulation of the product. II.3A2. Pharmacology
(1) Pharmacological studies are of fundamental importance in clarifying the mechanisms by which the veterinary medicinal product produces its therapeutic effects, and therefore pharmacological studies conducted in experimental and target species of animal shall be included. Cross reference may be made, if applicable, to studies submitted in Part 4 of the dossier. (2) Where a veterinary medicinal product produces pharmacological effects in the absence of a toxic response, or at doses lower than those required to elicit toxicity, those pharmacological effects shall be taken into account during the evaluation of the safety for the user of the veterinary medicinal product. (3) The safety documentation shall always be preceded by details of pharmacological investigations undertaken in laboratory animals and all relevant information observed during clinical studies in the target animal. II.3A2.1. Pharmacodynamics
Information on the mechanism of action of the active substance(s) shall be provided, together with information on primary and secondary pharmacodynamic effects in order to assist in the understanding of any adverse effects in the animal studies. Detailed reporting of pharmacodynamic properties relating to the therapeutic effect shall be reported in Part 4A of the dossier.II.3A2.2. Pharmacokinetics
Data on the fate of the active substance and its metabolites in laboratory animals shall be provided, covering absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME). The data shall be related to the dose/effect findings in the pharmacological and toxicological studies, to determine adequate exposure.II.3A3. Toxicology
(1) The documentation on toxicology shall follow the guidance published by the Agency on the general approach to testing and guidance on particular studies. Generally, toxicity studies shall be conducted with the active substance(s), not with the formulated product, unless specifically required otherwise. (2) Animal studies shall be conducted in established strains of laboratory animals for which (preferably) historical data are available. (3) Single-dose toxicity
Single-dose toxicity studies may be used to predict: (a) 
the possible effects of acute overdose in the target species; (b) 
the possible effects of accidental administration to humans; (c) 
the doses which may usefully be employed in the repeat dose studies. Single-dose toxicity studies shall reveal the acute toxic effects of the substance and the time course for their onset and remission.The studies to be carried out shall be selected with a view to providing information on user safety, for example, if substantial exposure by inhalation or dermal contact of the user of the veterinary medicinal product is anticipated, those routes of exposure shall be studied. (4) Repeat-dose toxicity
Repeat-dose toxicity tests are intended to reveal any physiological and/or pathological changes induced by repeated administration of the active substance or combination of active substances under examination, and to determine how those changes are related to dosage.A repeat-dose toxicity study in one species of experimental animal shall normally be sufficient. This study may be replaced by a study conducted in the target animal. The frequency and route of administration, and the duration of the study shall be chosen having regard to the proposed conditions of clinical use and/or user exposure. The applicant shall give his reasons for the extent and duration of the studies and the dosages chosen. (5) Tolerance in the target species
A summary shall be provided of any signs of intolerance which have been observed during studies conducted, usually with the final formulation, in the target species in accordance with the requirements of Part II.4A4 (Tolerance in the target animal species). The studies concerned, the dosages at which the intolerance occurred, and the species and breeds concerned shall be identified. Details of any unexpected physiological changes shall also be provided. The full reports of those studies shall be included in Part 4 of the dossier. (6) Reproductive toxicity including developmental toxicity
Study of the effects on reproductionFor products intended for use in breeding animals, reproductive safety studies in line with VICH GL43 shall be provided. Reproduction toxicity studies in laboratory animals are not expected for the evaluation of effects on the user. (7) Study of developmental toxicity
For the evaluation of effects in the target animal species, developmental toxicity studies are not required for products intended only for use in non-breeding animals. For other products a study of developmental toxicity shall be performed in at least one species, which may be the target species. If the study is conducted in the target species, a summary shall be provided here, and the full report of the study shall be included in Part 4 of the dossier.For the evaluation of user safety, standard developmental toxicity testing in accordance with standard tests based on established guidance (including VICH GL32 and OECD tests) shall be performed in all cases where significant user exposure may be expected. (8) Genotoxicity
Tests for genotoxic potential shall be performed to reveal changes which a substance may cause in the genetic material of cells. Any substance intended to be included in a veterinary medicinal product for the first time shall be assessed for genotoxic properties.A standard battery of genotoxicity tests in accordance with standard tests based on established guidance (including VICH GL23 and OECD tests) shall be carried out on the active substance(s).
In order to ensure legal certainty, the Commission may decide whether a specific product is a veterinary medicinal product. (90) Having regard to the special characteristics of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products, especially the constituents of those products, it is desirable to establish a special, simplified registration procedure and to provide specific provisions for package leaflets for certain homeopathic veterinary medicinal products which are placed on the market without indications. The quality aspect of homeopathic medicinal products is independent of their use, so no specific provisions should apply to such products with regard to the necessary quality requirements and rules. Moreover, while the use of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products authorised under this Regulation is regulated in the same way as other authorised veterinary medicinal products, it does not regulate the use of registered homeopathic veterinary medicinal products. The use of such registered homeopathic veterinary medicinal products is therefore subject to national law which is also the case as regards homeopathic medicinal products registered in accordance with Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (13). (91) In order to protect public and animal health and the environment, the activities, services and tasks attributed to the Agency in this Regulation should be adequately funded. Those activities, services and tasks should be funded through fees charged by the Agency to undertakings. Those fees, however, should not affect the right of Member States to charge fees for activities and tasks carried out at national level. (92) It is generally accepted that the existing requirements regarding the technical documentation on the quality, safety and efficacy of veterinary medicinal products presented when applying for a marketing authorisation in Annex I to Directive 2001/82/EC as last amended by Commission Directive 2009/9/EC (14) work sufficiently well in practice. There is no urgent need, therefore, to substantially change those requirements. However, there is a need to adjust those requirements in order to respond to the identified discrepancies with the international scientific progress or latest developments, including guidance from VICH, WHO, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) standards, and taking into account also the need to develop specific requirements for novel therapy veterinary medicinal products while avoiding major overhaul of the current provisions, in particular not altering their structure. (93) In order to, inter alia, adapt this Regulation to the scientific developments of the sector, to exercise the supervisory powers of the Commission effectively, and to introduce harmonised standards within the Union, the power to adopt acts in accordance with Article 290 TFEU should be delegated to the Commission in respect of establishing the criteria for the designation of the antimicrobials which are to be reserved for treatment of certain infections in humans; establishing the requirements for collection of data as regards the antimicrobial medicinal products, rules on the methods of collection and quality assurance; establishing the rules to ensure the effective and safe use of veterinary medicinal products authorised and prescribed for oral administration via routes other than medicated feed; providing details on content and format of the information as regards equine species in the single lifetime identification document; amending the rules on withdrawal period in the light of new scientific evidence; providing the necessary detailed rules on the application, by operators in third countries, of the provisions on the prohibition of the use of antimicrobial medicinal products in animals for the purpose of promoting growth or increase yield and the prohibition of the use of designated antimicrobials; laying down the procedure for the imposition of fines or periodic penalty payments as well as the conditions and methods for their collection; and amending Annex II in order to (i) adapt the requirements regarding the technical documentation on the quality, safety and efficacy of veterinary medicinal products to technical and scientific progress and (ii) achieve a sufficient level of detail that ensures legal certainty and harmonisation as well as any necessary updating. It is of particular importance that the Commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level, and that those consultations be conducted in accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making (15). In particular, to ensure equal participation in the preparation of delegated acts, the European Parliament and the Council receive all documents at the same time as Member States' experts, and their experts systematically have access to meetings of Commission expert groups dealing with the preparation of delegated acts. (94) In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this Regulation, implementing powers should be conferred on the Commission. Those powers should be exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (16). (95) When providing services in another Member State, veterinarians should follow any national rules present in the host Member State pursuant to Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (17) and Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (18). (96) Taking into account the main changes that should be made to the existing rules, and aiming to improve the functioning of the internal market, a regulation is the appropriate legal instrument to replace Directive 2001/82/EC in order to lay down clear, detailed and directly applicable rules. Moreover, a regulation ensures that legal requirements are implemented at the same time and in a harmonised manner throughout the Union. (97) Since the objectives of this Regulation, namely to establish rules on veterinary medicinal products ensuring the protection of human and animal health and the environment as well as the functioning of the internal market, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States, but can rather, by reason of its effects, be better achieved at Union level, the Union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives,
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
(9) 'generic veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product which has the same qualitative and quantitative composition of active substances and the same pharmaceutical form as the reference veterinary medicinal product, and with regard to which bioequivalence with the reference veterinary medicinal product has been demonstrated;
(9) 'generic veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product which has the same qualitative and quantitative composition of active substances and the same pharmaceutical form as the reference veterinary medicinal product, and with regard to which bioequivalence with the reference veterinary medicinal product has been demonstrated;
Chapter II
Presentation of particulars and documents
The dossier of safety tests shall include the following:

—
an index of all studies included in the dossier,
—
a statement confirming that all data known by the applicant at the time of submission, whether favourable or unfavourable, are included,
—
a justification for the omission of any type of study,
—
an explanation of the inclusion of an alternative type of study,
—
a discussion of the contribution that any study that pre-dates studies performed in line with good laboratory practice (GLP) according to Directive 2004/10/EC can make to the overall risk assessment. Each study report shall include: —
a copy of the study plan (protocol),
—
a statement of compliance with good laboratory practice, where applicable,
—
a description of the methods, apparatus and materials used,
—
a description and justification of the test system,
—
a description of the results obtained, in sufficient detail to allow the results to be critically evaluated independently of their interpretation by the author,
—
a statistical analysis of the results where appropriate,
—
a discussion of the results, with comment on observed and no-observed-effect levels, and on any unusual findings,
—
a detailed description and a thorough discussion of the results of the study of the safety profile of the active substance, and its relevance for the evaluation of potential risks presented by residues to humans. B. RESIDUE TESTS
Chapter I
Performance of tests
1. Introduction
For the purposes of this Annex, the definitions of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2377/90 (13) shall apply. The purpose of studying the depletion of residues from the edible tissues or of eggs, milk and honey derived from treated animals is to determine under what conditions and to what extent residues may persist in foodstuffs produced from these animals. In addition, the studies shall enable the determination of a withdrawal period. In the case of veterinary medicinal products intended for use in food-producing animals, the residue documentation shall show: (1) to what extent, and how long, do residues of the veterinary medicinal product or its metabolites persist in the edible tissues of the treated animal or in milk, eggs and/or honey obtained therefrom; (2) that in order to prevent any risk to the health of the consumer of foodstuffs from treated animals, or difficulties in the industrial processing of foodstuffs, it is possible to establish realistic withdrawal periods which can be observed under practical farming conditions; (3) that the analytical method(s) used in the residues depletion study are sufficiently validated to provide the necessary reassurance that the residues data submitted are suitable as the basis for a withdrawal period. 2. Metabolism and residue kinetics
2.1. Pharmacokinetics (absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion)
A summary of the pharmacokinetic data shall be submitted with cross reference to the pharmacokinetic studies in target species submitted in Part 4. The full study report does not need to be submitted. The purpose of pharmacokinetic studies with respect to residues of veterinary medicinal products is to evaluate the absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of the product in the target species. The final product, or a formulation, which has comparable characteristics in terms of bioavailability as the final product, shall be administered to the target animal species at the maximum recommended dose. Having regard to the method of administration, the extent of absorption of the veterinary medicinal product shall be fully described. If it is demonstrated that systemic absorption of products for topical application is negligible, further residue studies will not be required. The distribution of the veterinary medicinal product in the target animal shall be described; the possibility of plasma protein binding or passage into milk or eggs and of the accumulation of lipophilic compounds shall be considered. The pathways for the excretion of the product from the target animal shall be described. The major metabolites shall be identified and characterised. 2.2. Depletion of residues
The purpose of these studies, which measure the rate at which residues deplete in the target animal after the last administration of the medicinal product, is to permit the determination of withdrawal periods. At a sufficient number of times after the test animal has received the final dose of the veterinary medicinal product, the quantities of residues present shall be determined by validated analytical methods; the technical procedures and the reliability and sensitivity of the methods employed shall be specified. 3. Residue analytical method
The analytical method(s) used in the residues depletion study (studies) and its (their) validation shall be described in detail. The following characteristics shall be described: —
specificity,
—
accuracy,
—
precision,
—
limit of detection,
—
limit of quantification,
—
practicability and applicability under normal laboratory conditions,
—
susceptibility to interference,
—
stability of incurred residues. The suitability of the analytical method proposed shall be evaluated in the light of the state of scientific and technical knowledge at the time the application is submitted. The analytical method shall be presented in an internationally agreed format. Chapter II
Presentation of particulars and documents
1. Identification of the product
An identification of the veterinary medicinal product(s) used in the testing shall be provided, including: —
composition,
—
the physical and chemical (potency and purity) test results for the relevant batch(es),
—
batch identification,
—
relationship to the final product,
—
specific activity and radio-purity of labelled substances,
—
position of labelled atoms in the molecule. The dossier of residue tests shall include: —
an index of all studies included in the dossier,
—
a statement confirming that all data known by the applicant at the time of submission, whether favourable or unfavourable, are included,
—
a justification for the omission of any type of study,
—
an explanation of the inclusion of an alternative type of study,
—
a discussion of the contribution that any study that pre-dates GLP can make to the overall risk assessment,
—
a withdrawal period proposal. Each study report shall include: —
a copy of the study plan (protocol),
—
a statement of compliance with good laboratory practice, where applicable,
—
a description of the methods, apparatus and materials used,
—
a description of the results obtained, in sufficient detail to allow the results to be critically evaluated independently of their interpretation by the author,
—
a statistical analysis of the results where appropriate,
—
a discussion of the results,
—
an objective discussion of the results obtained, and proposals concerning the withdrawal periods necessary to ensure that no residues which might constitute a hazard for consumers are present in foodstuffs obtained from treated animals. PART 4
Pre-clinical and clinical trial
The particulars and documents, which shall accompany applications for marketing authorisations pursuant to the third indent of Article 12(3)(j) shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements below. Chapter I
Pre-clinical requirements
Pre-clinical studies are required to establish the pharmacological activity and the tolerance of the product. A. PHARMACOLOGY
A.1. Pharmacodynamics
The pharmacodynamic effects of the active substance(s) included in the veterinary medicinal product shall be characterised. First, the mechanism of action and the pharmacological effects on which the recommended application in practice is based shall be adequately described. The results shall be expressed in quantitative terms (using, for example, dose-effect curves, time-effect curves, etc.) and, wherever possible, in comparison with a substance the activity of which is well known.
Any substance intended to be included in a veterinary medicinal product for the first time shall be assessed for genotoxic properties.A standard battery of genotoxicity tests in accordance with standard tests based on established guidance (including VICH GL23 and OECD tests) shall be carried out on the active substance(s). (9) Carcinogenicity
The decision on whether carcinogenicity testing is required shall take into account the results of genotoxicity tests, structure-activity relationships and the findings in repeat dose toxicity tests that may demonstrate the potential for hyper-/neo-plastic changes.Any known species specificity of the mechanism of toxicity shall be considered, as well as any differences in metabolism between the test species, target animal species, and human beings.Carcinogenicity testing shall be conducted according to standard tests based on established guidance (including VICH GL28 and OECD tests). (10) Exceptions
Where a veterinary medicinal product is intended for topical use, systemic absorption shall be investigated in the target animal species. If it is proved that systemic absorption is negligible, the repeated dose toxicity tests, the tests for reproductive and developmental toxicity and the carcinogenicity tests may be omitted, unless: (a) 
under the intended conditions of use, oral ingestion of the veterinary medicinal product by the animal is to be expected, or
(b) 
under the intended conditions of use, oral exposure of the user of the veterinary medicinal product is to be expected. II.3A4. Other requirements
II.3A.4.1. Special studies
For particular groups of substances or if the effects observed during repeated dose studies in animals include changes indicative of, for example, immunotoxicity, neurotoxicity or endocrine dysfunction, further testing shall be required, for example, sensitisation studies or delayed neurotoxicity tests. Depending on the nature of the product, it may be necessary to conduct additional studies to assess the underlying mechanism of the toxic effect or the irritation potential.For products for which there may be exposure to skin and eyes, irritation and sensitisation studies shall be provided. Those studies shall be conducted with the final formulation.The state of latest scientific knowledge and established guidance shall be taken into account when designing such studies and evaluating their results.II.3A.4.2. Observations in humans
Information shall be provided showing whether the pharmacologically active substances of the veterinary medicinal product are used as medicinal products in human therapy. If that is the case, a compilation shall be made of all the effects observed (including adverse reactions) in humans and of their cause, to the extent that they may be important for the assessment of the safety of the veterinary medicinal product, where appropriate including results from published studies; where constituents of the veterinary medicinal products are themselves not used or are no longer used as medicinal products in human therapy, the reasons shall be stated, if publicly available.II.3A.4.3. Development of resistance and related risk in humans
The data requirements described in this point are related to antibacterial substances and may not be fully applicable to other types of antimicrobial (namely antivirals, antifungals and antiprotozoals) although, in principle, the requirements may be followed, where applicable.Data on the potential emergence of resistant bacteria or resistance determinants of relevance for human health and which are associated with the use of veterinary medicinal products are necessary for those products. The mechanism of the development and selection of such resistance is particularly important in this regard. Where necessary, measures to limit resistance development from the intended use of the veterinary medicinal product shall be proposed by the applicant.Resistance data relevant for clinical use of the product in target animals shall be addressed in accordance with Part II.4A2. Where relevant, cross reference shall be made to the data set out in Part II.4A2. (1) For food-producing animals the risk assessment shall address: (a) 
the identification of resistant bacteria or resistance determinants that could be associated with human illness (zoonotic and/or commensal bacteria) and are selected by the use of the antimicrobial veterinary medicinal product in target animals (hazard identification); (b) 
the probability of release of the identified hazard(s) from the target animal species as a result of the use of the veterinary medicinal product under consideration; (c) 
the probability of subsequent human exposure to the identified hazard(s) via the foodborne route or through direct contact, and the resulting consequences (adverse health effects) to human health. Guidance is available in VICH GL27 and EU GLs. (2) For companion animals consideration of risk to human or public health shall address: (a) 
the identification of resistant bacteria or resistance determinants that could be associated with human illness and are selected by the use of the antimicrobial veterinary medicinal product in target animals; (b) 
an estimate of exposure of zoonotic and commensal bacteria in the target animal species based on the conditions of use of the veterinary medicinal product under consideration; (c) 
consideration of subsequent human exposure to antimicrobial resistance (AMR), and the resulting consequences to human health. (3) Resistance in the environment shall be addressed. II.3A5. User safety
This section shall include an assessment of the effects found in Part II.3A to II.3A4 and relate this to the type and extent of human exposure to the product with a view to formulating appropriate user warnings and other risk management measures.User safety shall be addressed in accordance with Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use (CVMP) guidelines.II.3A6. Environmental risk assessment
(1) An environmental risk assessment shall be performed to assess the potential harmful effects that the use of the veterinary medicinal product may cause to the environment and to identify the risk of such effects. The assessment shall also identify any precautionary measures which may be necessary to reduce such risk. (2) This assessment consists of two phases. The first phase of the assessment shall always be performed. The details of the assessment shall be provided in accordance with guidance published by the Agency. It shall indicate the potential exposure of the environment to the product and the level of risk associated with any such exposure, in particular taking into account the following items: (a) 
the target animal species, and the proposed pattern of use; (b) 
the method of administration, in particular the likely extent to which the product will enter directly into environmental systems; (c) 
the possible excretion of the product, its active substances or relevant metabolites into the environment by treated animals; persistence in such excreta; (d) 
the disposal of unused veterinary medicinal product or other waste product. (3) In the second phase, further specific investigation of the fate and effects of the product on particular ecosystems shall be conducted, in accordance with guidance published by the Agency. The extent of exposure of the product to the environment, and the available information about the physical/chemical, pharmacological and/or toxicological properties of the substance(s) concerned, including metabolites in case of an identified risk, which has been obtained during the conduct of the other tests and trials required by this Regulation, shall be taken into consideration.
The results shall be expressed in quantitative terms (using, for example, dose-effect curves, time-effect curves, etc.) and, wherever possible, in comparison with a substance the activity of which is well known. Where a higher efficacy is being claimed for an active substance, the difference shall be demonstrated and shown to be statistically significant. Secondly, an overall pharmacological assessment of the active substance shall be provided, with special reference to the possibility of secondary pharmacological effects. In general, the effects on the main body functions shall be investigated. Any effect of the other characteristics of the products (such as the route of administration or formulation) on the pharmacological activity of the active substance shall be investigated. The investigations shall be intensified where the recommended dose approaches a dose likely to produce adverse reactions. The experimental techniques, unless they are standard procedures, shall be described in such detail as to allow them to be reproduced, and the investigator shall establish their validity. The experimental results shall be set out clearly and, for certain types of tests, their statistical significance quoted. Unless good reasons are given to the contrary, any quantitative modification of responses resulting from repeated administration of the substance shall also be investigated. Fixed combinations may be prompted either on pharmacological grounds or by clinical indications. In the first case, the pharmacodynamic and/or pharmacokinetic studies shall demonstrate those interactions, which might make the combination itself of value in clinical use. In the second case, where scientific justification for the medicinal combination is sought through clinical experimentation, the investigation shall determine whether the effects expected from the combination can be demonstrated in animals and, at least, the importance of any adverse reactions shall be checked. If a combination includes a new active substance, the latter shall have been previously studied in depth. A.2. Development of resistance
Where relevant, data on the potential emergence of resistant organisms of clinical relevance are necessary for veterinary medicinal products. The mechanism of the development of such resistance is particularly important in this regard. Measures to limit resistance development from the intended use of the veterinary medicinal product shall be proposed by the applicant. Where relevant, cross reference shall be made to data set out in Part 3. A.3. Pharmacokinetics
Basic pharmacokinetic data concerning a new active substance are required in the context of assessment of the clinical safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product. The objectives of pharmacokinetic studies in the target animal species can be divided into three main areas: (i) descriptive pharmacokinetics leading to the determination of basic parameters; (ii) use of these parameters to investigate the relationships between dosage regimen, plasma and tissue concentration over time and pharmacological, therapeutic or toxic effects; (iii) where appropriate, to compare the kinetics between different target species and to explore possible species differences having an impact on target animal safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product. In the target animal species, pharmacokinetic studies are, as a rule, necessary as a complement to the pharmacodynamic studies to support the establishment of effective dosage regimens (route and site of administration, dose, dosing interval, number of administrations, etc.). Additional pharmacokinetic studies may be required to establish dosage regimens according to certain population variables. Where pharmacokinetic studies have been submitted under Part 3 cross reference to such studies may be made. In the case of new combinations of known substances which have been investigated in accordance with the provisions of this Directive, pharmacokinetic studies of the fixed combination are not required if it can be justified that the administration of the active substances as a fixed combination does not change their pharmacokinetic properties. Appropriate bioavailability studies shall be undertaken to establish bioequivalence: —
when comparing a reformulated veterinary medicinal product with the existing one,
—
where necessary for the comparison of a new method or route of administration with an established one. B. TOLERANCE IN THE TARGET ANIMAL SPECIES
The local and systemic tolerance of the veterinary medicinal product shall be investigated in the target animal species. The purpose of these studies is to characterise signs of intolerance and to establish an adequate margin of safety using the recommended route(s) of administration. This may be achieved by increasing the therapeutic dose and/or the duration of treatment. The report on the trials shall contain details of all expected pharmacological effects and all adverse reactions. Chapter II
Clinical requirements
1. General principles
The purpose of clinical trials is to demonstrate or substantiate the effect of the veterinary medicinal product after administration at the proposed dosage regimen via the proposed route of administration and to specify its indications and contra-indications according to species, age, breed and sex, its directions for use as well as any adverse reactions which it may have. Experimental data shall be confirmed by data obtained under normal field conditions. Unless justified, clinical trials shall be carried out with control animals (controlled clinical trials). The efficacy results obtained should be compared with those from the target animal species that have received a veterinary medicinal product authorised in the Community for the same indications for use in the same target animal species, or a placebo or no treatment. All the results obtained, whether positive or negative, shall be reported. Established statistical principles shall be used in protocol design, analysis and evaluation of clinical trials, unless justified. In the case of a veterinary medicinal product intended primarily for use as a performance enhancer, particular attention shall be given to: (1) the yield of animal produce,
(2) the quality of animal produce (organoleptic, nutritional, hygienic and technological qualities),
(3) nutritional efficiency and growth of target animal species,
(4) general health status of the target animal species. 2. Conduct of clinical trials
All veterinary clinical trials shall be conducted in accordance with a detailed trial protocol. Clinical field trials shall be conducted in accordance with established principles of good clinical practice, unless otherwise justified. Before the commencement of any field trial, the informed consent of the owner of the animals to be used in the trial shall be obtained and documented. In particular, the animal owner shall be informed in writing of the consequences of participation in the trial for the subsequent disposal of treated animals or for the taking of foodstuffs from treated animals. A copy of this notification, countersigned and dated by the animal owner, shall be included in the trial documentation. Unless the field trial is conducted with a blind design, the provisions of Articles 55, 56 and 57 shall apply by analogy to the labelling of formulations intended for use in veterinary field trials. In all cases, the words 'for veterinary field trial use only' shall appear prominently and indelibly upon the labelling. Chapter III
Particulars and documents
The dossier on efficacy shall include all pre-clinical and clinical documentation and/or results of trials, whether favourable or unfavourable to the veterinary medicinal products, in order to enable an objective overall assessment of the risk/benefit balance of the product. 1. Results of pre-clinical trials
Wherever possible, particulars shall be given of the results of:
(10) 'homeopathic veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product prepared from homeopathic stocks in accordance with a homeopathic manufacturing procedure described by the European Pharmacopoeia or, in the absence thereof, by the pharmacopoeias used officially in Member States;
The extent of exposure of the product to the environment, and the available information about the physical/chemical, pharmacological and/or toxicological properties of the substance(s) concerned, including metabolites in case of an identified risk, which has been obtained during the conduct of the other tests and trials required by this Regulation, shall be taken into consideration. (4) For products intended for food producing species, persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) or very persistent and very bioaccumulative (vPvB) substances shall be classified according to the criteria in Annex XIII to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (
19
) (REACH Regulation) and assessed according to the guidance for PBT and vPvB assessment of substances in veterinary medicines published by the Agency. II.3B. Residue tests
(1) For the purposes of this point, the definitions of Regulation (EC) No 470/2009 shall apply. (2) The purpose of studying the depletion of residues from the edible tissues or from eggs, milk and honey (wax, if appropriate) derived from treated animals is to determine under what conditions and to what extent residues may persist in foodstuffs produced from those animals. In addition, the studies shall enable the determination of a withdrawal period. (3) In the case of veterinary medicinal products intended for use in food-producing animals, the residue documentation shall show: (a) 
to what extent, and for how long residues of the veterinary medicinal product or its metabolites persist in the edible tissues of the treated animal or in milk, eggs and/or honey (wax, if appropriate) obtained therefrom; (b) 
that in order to prevent any risk to the health of the consumer of foodstuffs from treated animals, it is possible to establish realistic withdrawal periods which may be observed under practical farming conditions; (c) 
that the analytical method(s) used in the residues depletion study are sufficiently validated to provide the necessary reassurance that the residues data submitted are suitable as the basis for a withdrawal period. II.3B1. Identification of the product
An identification of the veterinary medicinal product(s) used in the testing shall be provided, including: (a) 
composition; (b) 
the physical and chemical (potency and purity) test results for the relevant batch(es); (c) 
batch identification. II.3B2. Depletion of residues (metabolism and residue kinetics)
(1) The purpose of these studies, which measure the rate at which residues deplete in the target animal after the last administration of the veterinary medicinal product, is to permit the determination of withdrawal periods necessary to ensure that no residues which may constitute a hazard for consumers are present in foodstuffs obtained from treated animals. (2) The current status of the MRL for the components of the veterinary medicinal product in the relevant target species shall be reported. (3) The levels of residues present shall be determined at a sufficient number of time points after the test animals have received the final dose of the veterinary medicinal product. The studies in mammals and birds shall be performed according to VICH GL48 and other relevant guidelines. Residue studies in honey shall be performed according to VICH GL56 and depletion studies in aquatic species according to VICH GL57. (4) Based on the evaluation, the rationale for the proposed withdrawal period shall be addressed. II.3B3. Residue analytical method
The residue depletion study (studies), the analytical method(s) and its (their) validation shall be performed in accordance with VICH GL49.The analytical method shall have regard to the state of scientific and technical knowledge at the time the application is submitted.II.4. Part 4: Efficacy documentation (pre-clinical studies and clinical trial(s))
II.4A. Pre-clinical studies
Pre-clinical studies aim to investigate the target animal safety and efficacy of the product and are required to establish the pharmacological activity, pharmacokinetic properties, dose and dosing interval, resistance (if applicable) and the target animal tolerance of the product.II.4A1. Pharmacology
II.4A.1.1. Pharmacodynamics
(1) The pharmacodynamic effects of the active substance(s) included in the veterinary medicinal product shall be characterised. (2) The mode of action and the pharmacological effects on which the recommended application is based in practice shall be adequately described, including secondary effects (if any). In general, the effects on the main body functions shall be investigated. The results shall be expressed in quantitative terms (for example, using dose-effect curves and/or time-effect curves) and, wherever possible, in comparison with a substance the activity of which is well known (where the activity is claimed to be higher in comparison to the substance the activity of which is well known, the difference shall be demonstrated and shown to be statistically significant). (3) Any effect of the other characteristics of the products (such as the route of administration or formulation) on the pharmacological activity of the active substance shall be investigated. (4) The experimental techniques, unless they are standard procedures, shall be described in such detail as to allow them to be reproduced, and their validity to be established. The experimental results shall be set out clearly and the outcome of any statistical comparisons presented. (5) Unless good reasons are given to the contrary, any quantitative modification of responses resulting from repeated administration of the substance shall also be investigated. II.4A.1.2. Pharmacokinetics
(1) Basic pharmacokinetic data on the active substance are required in the context of assessment of the target animal safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product in the target species, in particular if this concerns a new substance or formulation. (2) The objectives of pharmacokinetic studies in the target animal species may be divided into four main areas: (a) 
to describe the basic pharmacokinetic characteristics (namely absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion) of the active substance in the formulation; (b) 
use of this basic pharmacokinetic characteristics to investigate the relationships between dosage regimen, plasma and tissue concentration over time and pharmacological, therapeutic or toxic effects; (c) 
where appropriate, to compare pharmacokinetic parameters between different target species and to explore possible species differences having an impact on target animal safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product; (d) 
where appropriate, to compare bioavailability to support bridging of safety and efficacy information between different products, pharmaceutical forms, strengths or routes of administration, or to compare the impact of changes in manufacturing or composition. (3) In the target animal species, pharmacokinetic studies are, as a rule, necessary as a complement to the pharmacodynamic studies to support the establishment of safe and effective dosage regimens (route and site of administration, dose, dosing interval, number of administrations, etc.). Additional pharmacokinetic studies may be required to establish dosage regimens according to certain population variables. (4) Where pharmacokinetic studies have been submitted under Part 3 of the dossier, cross reference to such studies may be made. For fixed combinations, please refer to Section IV. II.4A2. Development of resistance and related risk in animals
(1) For relevant veterinary medicinal products (for example, antimicrobials, antiparasitics), information on current resistance (if applicable) and on the potential emergence of resistance of clinical relevance for the claimed indication in the target animal species shall be provided.
(10) 'homeopathic veterinary medicinal product' means a veterinary medicinal product prepared from homeopathic stocks in accordance with a homeopathic manufacturing procedure described by the European Pharmacopoeia or, in the absence thereof, by the pharmacopoeias used officially in Member States;
(11) 'antimicrobial resistance' means the ability of micro-organisms to survive or to grow in the presence of a concentration of an antimicrobial agent which is usually sufficient to inhibit or kill micro-organisms of the same species;
Development of resistance and related risk in animals
(1) For relevant veterinary medicinal products (for example, antimicrobials, antiparasitics), information on current resistance (if applicable) and on the potential emergence of resistance of clinical relevance for the claimed indication in the target animal species shall be provided.

Where possible, information on the resistance mechanism(s), the molecular genetic basis of resistance, and the rate of transfer of resistance determinants shall be presented. Whenever relevant, information on co-resistance and cross-resistance shall be presented. Measures to limit resistance development in organisms of clinical relevance for the intended use of the veterinary medicinal product shall be proposed by the applicant. (2) Resistance relevant for risks to humans shall be addressed in accordance with Part II.3A4, point (3). Where relevant, cross-reference shall be made to data set out in Part II.3A4, point (3). II.4A3. Dose determination and confirmation
Appropriate data shall be provided to justify the proposed dose, dosing interval, duration of treatment and any re-treatment interval.For studies conducted under field conditions, relevant information shall be provided as outlined in Part II.4B, unless duly justified.II.4A4. Tolerance in the target animal species
The local and systemic tolerance of the veterinary medicinal product shall be investigated in the target animal species. The purpose of target animal safety studies is to characterise signs of intolerance and to establish an adequate margin of safety using the recommended route(s) of administration. This may be achieved by increasing the dose and/or the duration of treatment. The study report(s) shall contain details of all expected pharmacological effects and all adverse reactions. The conduct of target animal safety studies shall be in accordance with the international guidelines of the International Cooperation on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Veterinary Medicinal Products ('VICH') and relevant guideline(s) published by the Agency.. Other pre-clinical studies, including studies provided in part 3, and clinical trials, along with relevant information from the published literature, may also provide information on safety in the target species. Studies on developmental toxicity performed in the target animal species shall be included here, and a summary shall be provided in Part 3 of the dossier.II.4B. Clinical trial(s) II.4B1. General principles
(1) Clinical trials shall be designed, carried out and reported taking due account of the international guidelines on good clinical practice of the VICH and relevant guidance published by the Agency. Data stemming from clinical trials conducted outside the Union may be taken into consideration for the assessment of an application for a marketing authorisation only if the data are sufficiently representative for the Union situation. (2) Experimental data such as exploratory/pilot trials, or results from non-experimental approaches shall be confirmed by clinical trials, unless otherwise justified. (3) The purpose of clinical trials is to examine under field conditions the target animal safety and efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product under normal conditions of animal husbandry and/or as part of good veterinary practice. They shall demonstrate the effect of the veterinary medicinal product after administration to the intended target species using the proposed dosage regimen and the proposed route(s) of administration. The trial design shall aim to support the indications and to take into account any contra-indications according to species, age, breed and sex, directions for use of the veterinary medicinal product as well as any adverse reactions which it may have. (4) All veterinary clinical trials shall be conducted in accordance with a detailed trial protocol. (5) For formulations intended for use in veterinary clinical trials in the Union, the words 'for veterinary clinical trial use only' shall appear prominently and indelibly on the labelling. (6) Unless otherwise justified, clinical trials shall be carried out with control animals (controlled clinical trials). The efficacy results obtained with the new product shall be compared with those from the target animal species that have received a veterinary medicinal product authorised in the Union that has demonstrated an acceptable level of efficacy and been approved for the proposed indication(s) for use in the same target animal species, or a placebo or no treatment. All the results obtained, whether positive or negative, shall be reported. (7) Established statistical principles in accordance with the relevant guidance published by the Agency shall be used in protocol design, analysis and evaluation of clinical trials, unless otherwise justified. II.4B2. Documentation
II.4B2.1. Results of pre-clinical studies
Wherever possible, particulars shall be given of the results of: (a) 
tests demonstrating pharmacological activity, including tests demonstrating the pharmacodynamic mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effect and tests demonstrating the main pharmacokinetic profile; (b) 
tests and investigations on resistance, if applicable; (c) 
tests demonstrating target animal safety; (d) 
tests to determine and confirm the dose (including dose interval, duration of treatment and any re-treatment interval). Where unexpected results occur during the course of the tests, those results shall be described in detail. Omission of any of those data shall be justified. The following particulars shall be provided in all pre-clinical study reports: (a) 
a summary; (b) 
a study protocol; (c) 
a detailed description of the objectives, design and conduct to include methods, apparatus and materials used, details such as species, age, weight, sex, number, breed or strain of animals, identification of animals, dose, route and schedule of administration; (d) 
a statistical analysis of the results, if applicable; (e) 
an objective discussion of the results obtained, leading to conclusions on the efficacy and target animal safety of the veterinary medicinal product. II.4B2.2. Results of clinical trials
All the particulars shall be supplied by each of the investigators on individual record sheets in the case of individual treatment and collective record sheets in the case of collective treatment.The marketing authorisation holder shall make all necessary arrangements to ensure that the original documents, which formed the basis of the data supplied, are kept for at least five years after the veterinary medicinal product is no longer authorised.In respect of each clinical trial, the clinical observations shall be summarised in a synopsis of the trials and the results thereof, indicating in particular: (a) 
the number of control and test animals treated either individually or collectively, with a breakdown according to species, breed or strain, age and sex; (b) 
the number of animals withdrawn prematurely from the trials and the reasons for such withdrawal; (c) 
in the case of control animals, whether they have: (i) 
received no treatment,
(ii) 
received a placebo, or
(iii) 
received another veterinary medicinal product authorised in the Union that has demonstrated an acceptable level of efficacy and been approved for the proposed indication(s) for use in the same target animal species, or
(iv) 
received the same active substance under investigation in a different formulation or by a different route; (d) 
the frequency of observed adverse reactions; (e) 
observations as to the effect on animal performance, if appropriate; (f) 
details concerning test animals which may be at increased risk owing to their age, their mode of rearing or feeding, or the purpose for which they are intended, or animals the physiological or pathological condition of which requires special consideration; (g) 
a statistical evaluation of the results.
(11) 'antimicrobial resistance' means the ability of micro-organisms to survive or to grow in the presence of a concentration of an antimicrobial agent which is usually sufficient to inhibit or kill micro-organisms of the same species;
1. Results of pre-clinical trials
Wherever possible, particulars shall be given of the results of:

(a) tests demonstrating pharmacological actions; (b) tests demonstrating the pharmacodynamic mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effect; (c) tests demonstrating the main pharmacokinetic profile; (d) tests demonstrating target animal safety; (e) tests investigating resistance. Should unexpected results occur during the course of the tests, these should be detailed. Additionally, the following particulars shall be provided in all pre-clinical studies: (a) a summary; (b) a detailed experimental protocol giving a description of the methods, apparatus and materials used, details such as species, age, weight, sex, number, breed or strain of animals, identification of animals, dose, route and schedule of administration; (c) a statistical analysis of the results, where relevant; (d) an objective discussion of the results obtained, leading to conclusions on the efficacy and safety of the veterinary medicinal product. Total or partial omission of any of these data shall be justified. 2. Results of clinical trials
All the particulars shall be supplied by each of the investigators on individual record sheets in the case of individual treatment and collective record sheets in the case of collective treatment. The particulars supplied shall take the following form: (a) name, address, function and qualifications of investigator in charge; (b) place and date of treatment; name and address of owner of the animals; (c) details of the clinical trial protocol giving a description of the methods used, including methods of randomisation and blinding, details such as the route of administration, schedule of administration, the dose, identification of trial animals, species, breeds or strains, age, weight, sex, physiological status; (d) method of animal management and feeding, stating the composition of the feed and the nature and quantity of any feed additives; (e) case history (as full as possible), including occurrence and course of any intercurrent diseases; (f) diagnosis and means used to make it; (g) clinical signs, if possible according to conventional criteria; (h) precise identification of the formulation of the veterinary medicinal product used in the clinical trial and the physical and chemical test results for the relevant batch(es); (i) dosage of the veterinary medicinal product, method, route and frequency of administration and precautions, if any, taken during administration (duration of injection, etc.); (j) duration of treatment and period of subsequent observation; (k) all details concerning other veterinary medicinal products which have been administered during the period of examination, either prior to or concurrently with the test product and, in the latter case, details of any interactions observed; (l) all results of the clinical trials, fully describing the results based on the efficacy criteria and end points specified in the clinical trial protocol and including the results of the statistical analyses, if appropriate; (m) all particulars of any unintended event, whether harmful or not, and of any measures taken in consequence; the cause-and-effect relationship shall be investigated if possible; (n) effect on animals' performance if appropriate; (o) effects on the quality of foodstuffs obtained from treated animals, particularly in the case of veterinary medicinal products intended for use as performance enhancers; (p) a conclusion on the safety and efficacy in each individual case or, summarised in terms of frequencies or other appropriate variables where specific mass treatment is concerned. Omission of one or more items (a) to (p) shall be justified. The marketing authorisation holder shall make all necessary arrangements to ensure that the original documents, which formed the basis of the data supplied, are kept for at least five years after the veterinary medicinal product is no longer authorised. In respect of each clinical trial, the clinical observations shall be summarised in a synopsis of the trials and the results thereof, indicating in particular: (a) the number of control and test animals treated either individually or collectively, with a breakdown according to species, breed or strain, age and sex; (b) the number of animals withdrawn prematurely from the trials and the reasons for such withdrawal; (c) in the case of control animals, whether they have: —
received no treatment,
—
received a placebo, or
—
received another veterinary medicinal product authorised in the Community for the same indication for use in the same target animal species, or
—
received the same active substance under investigation in a different formulation or by a different route; (d) the frequency of observed adverse reactions; (e) observations as to the effect on animal performance, if appropriate; (f) details concerning test animals which may be at increased risk owing to their age, their mode of rearing or feeding, or the purpose for which they are intended, or animals the physiological or pathological condition of which requires special consideration; (g) a statistical evaluation of the results. Finally, the investigator shall draw general conclusions on the efficacy and safety of the veterinary medicinal product under the proposed conditions of use, and in particular any information relating to indications and contraindications, dosage and average duration of treatment and where, appropriate, any interactions observed with other veterinary medicinal products or feed additives as well as any special precautions to be taken during treatment and the clinical symptoms of overdosage, when observed. In the case of fixed combination products, the investigator shall also draw conclusions concerning the safety and the efficacy of the product when compared with the separate administration of the active substances involved. TITLE II
Requirements for immunological veterinary medicinal products
Without prejudice to specific requirements laid down by Community legislation for the control and eradication of specific infectious animal diseases, the following requirements shall apply to immunological veterinary medicinal products, except when the products are intended for use in some species or with specific indications as defined in Title III and in relevant guidelines. PART 1
Summary of the dossier
A. ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION
The immunological veterinary medicinal product, which is the subject of the application, shall be identified by name and by name of the active substance(s), together with the biological activity, potency or titre, the pharmaceutical form, the route and method if appropriate of administration and a description of the final presentation of the product, including packaging, labelling and leaflet. Diluents may be packed together with the vaccine vials or separately. Information on diluents needed for making the final vaccine preparation shall be included in the dossier. An immunological veterinary medicinal product is regarded as one product even when more than one diluent is required so that different preparations of the final product can be prepared, which may be for administration by different routes or methods of administration. The name and address of the applicant shall be given, together with the name and address of the manufacturer and the sites involved in the different stages of manufacture and control (including the manufacturer of the finished product and the manufacturer(s) of the active substance(s)) and where relevant the name and address of the importer. The applicant shall identify the number and titles of volumes of documentation submitted in support of the application and indicate what samples, if any, are also provided. Annexed to the administrative information shall be copies of a document showing that the manufacturer is authorised to produce immunological veterinary medicinal products, as defined in Article 44.
Annexed to the administrative information shall be copies of a document showing that the manufacturer is authorised to produce immunological veterinary medicinal products, as defined in Article 44. Moreover, the list of organisms handled at the production site shall be given. The applicant shall submit a list of countries in which authorisation has been granted, and a list of countries in which an application has been submitted or refused. B. SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS, LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
The applicant shall propose a summary of the product characteristics, in accordance with Article 14. A proposed labelling text for the immediate and outer packaging shall be provided in accordance with Title V of this Directive, together with a package leaflet where one is required pursuant to Article 61. In addition the applicant shall provide one or more specimens or mock-ups of the final presentation(s) of the veterinary medicinal product in at least one of the official languages of the European Union; the mock-up may be provided in black and white and electronically where prior agreement from the competent authority has been obtained. C. DETAILED AND CRITICAL SUMMARIES
Each detailed and critical summary referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 12(3) shall be prepared in the light of the state of scientific knowledge at the time of submission of the application. It shall contain an evaluation of the various tests and trials, which constitute the marketing authorisation dossier and shall address all points relevant to the assessment of the quality, safety and efficacy of the immunological veterinary medicinal product. It shall give the detailed results of the tests and trials submitted and precise bibliographic references. All important data shall be summarised in an appendix to the detailed and critical summaries, whenever possible in tabular or graphic form. The detailed and critical summaries shall contain precise cross references to the information contained in the main documentation. The detailed and critical summaries shall be signed and dated, and information about the author's educational background, training and occupational experience shall be attached. The professional relationship of the author with the applicant shall be declared. PART 2
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological/microbiological information (quality)
All test procedures shall fulfil the necessary criteria for analysis and control of the quality of the starting materials and the finished product and shall be validated procedures. The results of the validation studies shall be provided. Any special apparatus and equipment which may be used shall be described in adequate detail, possibly accompanied by a diagram. The formulae of the laboratory reagents shall be supplemented, if necessary, by the manufacturing method. In the case of test procedures included in the European Pharmacopoeia or the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, this description may be replaced by a detailed reference to the pharmacopoeia in question. Where available, chemical and biological reference material of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be used. If other reference preparations and standards are used, they shall be identified and described in detail. A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE PARTICULARS OF THE CONSTITUENTS
1. Qualitative particulars
 'Qualitative particulars' of all the constituents of the immunological veterinary medicinal product shall mean the designation or description of: —
the active substance(s),
—
the constituents of the adjuvants,
—
the constituent(s) of the excipients, whatever their nature or the quantity used, including preservatives, stabilisers, emulsifiers, colouring matter, flavouring, aromatic substances, markers, etc.,
—
the constituents of the pharmaceutical form administered to animals. These particulars shall be supplemented by any relevant data concerning the container and, where appropriate, its manner of closure, together with details of devices with which the immunological veterinary medicinal product will be used or administered and which will be delivered with the medicinal product. If the device is not delivered together with the immunological veterinary medicinal product, relevant information about the device shall be provided, where necessary for the assessment of the product. 2. 
 'Usual terminology'
The 'usual terminology', to be used in describing the constituents of immunological veterinary medicinal products, shall mean, notwithstanding the application of the other provisions of Article 12(3)(c): —
in respect of substances which appear in the European Pharmacopoeia or, failing this, in the pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States, the main title of the monograph in question, which will be obligatory for all such substances, with reference to the pharmacopoeia concerned,
—
in respect of other substances, the international non-proprietary name recommended by the World Health Organisation, which may be accompanied by another non-proprietary name or, failing these, the exact scientific designation; substances not having an international non-proprietary name or an exact scientific designation shall be described by a statement of how and from what they were prepared, supplemented, where appropriate, by any other relevant details,
—
in respect of colouring matter, designation by the 'E' code assigned to them in Directive 78/25/EEC. 3. Quantitative particulars
In order to give the 'quantitative particulars' of the active substances of an immunological veterinary medicinal product, it is necessary to specify whenever possible the number of organisms, the specific protein content, the mass, the number of International Units (IU) or units of biological activity, either per dosage-unit or volume, and with regard to the adjuvant and to the constituents of the excipients, the mass or the volume of each of them, with due allowance for the details provided in Section B.
Where an international unit of biological activity has been defined, this shall be used. The units of biological activity for which no published data exist shall be expressed in such a way as to provide unambiguous information on the activity of the ingredients, e.g. by stating the immunological effect on which the method of determining the dose is based. 4. Product development
An explanation shall be provided with regard to the composition, components and containers, supported by scientific data on product development. The overage, with justification thereof, shall be stated. B. DESCRIPTION OF MANUFACTURING METHOD
The description of the manufacturing method accompanying the application for marketing authorisation pursuant to Article 12(3)(d), shall be drafted in such a way as to give an adequate description of the nature of the operations employed. For this purpose the description shall include at least: —
the various stages of manufacture (including production of the antigen and purification procedures) so that an assessment can be made of the reproducibility of the manufacturing procedure and of the risks of adverse effects on the finished products, such as microbiological contamination; the validation of key stages in the production process shall be demonstrated and the validation of the production process as a whole shall be demonstrated with provision of results of three consecutive batches produced using the method described,
—
in the case of continuous manufacture, full details concerning precautions taken to ensure the homogeneity and consistency of each batch of the finished product,
—
listing of all the substances at the appropriate steps where they are used, including those which cannot be recovered in the course of manufacturing,
—
the details of the blending, with the quantitative particulars of all the substances used,
—
a statement of the stages of manufacture at which sampling is carried out for control tests during production.
(12) 'antimicrobial' means any substance with a direct action on micro-organisms used for treatment or prevention of infections or infectious diseases, including antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals and anti-protozoals;
(12) 'antimicrobial' means any substance with a direct action on micro-organisms used for treatment or prevention of infections or infectious diseases, including antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals and anti-protozoals;
(g) 
a statistical evaluation of the results.

The main investigator shall draw general conclusions on the efficacy and target animal safety of the veterinary medicinal product under the proposed conditions of use and in particular any information relating to indications and contraindications, dosage and average duration of treatment and, where appropriate, any interactions observed with other veterinary medicinal products or feed additives as well as any special precautions to be taken during treatment and the clinical signs of overdose, when observed.Without prejudice to specific requirements laid down in Union legislation for the control and eradication of specific infectious animal diseases, the following requirements shall apply to biological veterinary medicinal products, except when the products are intended for use in some species or with specific indications as defined in Sections IV and V and in relevant guidelines.SECTION IIIa
REQUIREMENTS FOR BIOLOGICAL VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OTHER THAN IMMUNOLOGICAL VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
The following requirements shall apply to biological veterinary medicinal products as defined in Article 4(6), except products defined in Article 4(5) or where otherwise set out in Section IV.Flexibility is allowed regarding compliance to the requirements specified in this Section, but any deviations from the requirements in this Annex shall be scientifically justified and based on specific properties of the biological product. For particular substances, safety data in addition to the requirements listed in this Section may be required depending on the nature of the product.IIIa.1. Part 1: Summary of the dossier
Please refer to Section I.IIIa.2. Part 2: Quality documentation (physicochemical, biological or microbiological information)
IIIa.2A. Product description
IIIa.2A1. Qualitative and quantitative composition
(1) The qualitative and quantitative composition of the biological veterinary medicinal product shall be stated. This section shall include information regarding: (a) 
the active substance(s); (b) 
the constituent(s) of the excipients, whatever their nature or the quantity used, including adjuvants, preservatives, stabilisers, thickeners, emulsifiers, colouring matter, flavouring and aromatic substances, markers, etc.; (c) 
the composition, that is to say, list of all components of the dosage form and their amount on a per-unit basis (including overages, if any), the function of the components, and a reference to their quality standards (for example, compendial monographs or manufacturer's specifications); (d) 
accompanying reconstitution solvent(s); (e) 
the type of container and its closure used for the dosage form and for any accompanying reconstitution solvents and devices, if applicable. If the device is not delivered together with the biological veterinary medicinal product, relevant information about the device shall be provided. (2) In order to give the quantitative composition of all the active substances and excipients of the veterinary medicinal products, it is necessary, depending on the pharmaceutical form concerned, to specify the mass, or the number of units of biological activity, either per dosage-unit or per unit of mass or volume, of each active substance and excipient. (3) Where possible, biological activity per units of mass or volume shall be indicated. Where an international unit of biological activity has been defined, this shall be used, unless otherwise justified. Where no international unit has been defined, the units of biological activity shall be expressed in such a way as to provide unambiguous information on the activity of the substances by using, where applicable, the European Pharmacopoeia Units. (4) The 'usual terminology' to be used in describing the constituents of biological veterinary medicinal products notwithstanding the application of the other provisions of Article 8, shall mean: (a) 
in respect of substances which appear in the European Pharmacopoeia or, failing this, in the pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States, the main title of the monograph in question, which will be obligatory for all such substances, with reference to the pharmacopoeia concerned; (b) 
in respect of other substances, the INN recommended by the WHO, which may be accompanied by another non-proprietary name or, failing these, the exact scientific designation; substances not having an international non-proprietary name or an exact scientific designation shall be described by a statement of how and from what they were prepared, supplemented, where appropriate, by any other relevant details; (c) 
in respect of colouring matter, designation by the 'E' code assigned to them in Directive 2009/35/EC. IIIa.2A2. Product development
An explanation shall be provided including but not limited to: (a) 
the choice of composition and the choice of the constituents, in particular relative to their intended functions and their respective concentrations; (b) 
the inclusion of a preservative in the composition shall be justified; (c) 
the immediate packaging and the suitability of the container and its closure system used for the storage and use of the finished product. A study of the interaction between the finished product and the primary packaging shall be submitted wherever the risk of such interaction is regarded as possible, especially where injectable preparations are concerned; (d) 
the microbiological characteristics (microbiological purity and antimicrobial activity) and usage instructions; (e) 
the possible further packaging, outer packaging, if relevant; (f) 
the proposed pack sizes related to the proposed route of administration, the posology and the target species; (g) 
any overage(s) in the formulation to guarantee minimum potency at end of shelf life with justification; (h) 
the selection of the manufacturing process of the active substance and the finished product; (i) 
differences between the manufacturing process(es) used to produce batches used in clinical trials and the process described in the application for marketing authorisation shall be discussed; (j) 
when a dosing device is provided with the finished product, the accuracy of the doses(s) shall be demonstrated; (k) 
when an accompanying test is recommended to be used with the finished product (e.g. a diagnostic test), relevant information about the test shall be provided. (l) 
This explanation shall be supported by scientific data on product development. IIIa.2A3. Characterisation
IIIa.2A3.1. Elucidation of structure and other characteristics
(1) Characterisation of a biotechnological or biological substance (which includes the determination of physicochemical properties, biological activity, immuno-chemical properties, purity and impurities) by appropriate techniques is necessary to allow a suitable specification to be established. Reference to literature data only is not acceptable, unless otherwise justified by prior knowledge from similar molecules for modifications where there is no safety concern. Adequate characterisation shall be performed in the development phase and, where necessary, following significant process changes. (2) All relevant information available on the primary, secondary and higher-order structure including post- translational (for example, glycoforms) and other modifications of the active substance shall be provided. (3) Details shall be provided on the biological activity (namely the specific ability or capacity of a product to achieve a defined biological effect). Usually, the biological activity shall be determined or evaluated using an appropriate, reliable and qualified method. Lack of such an assay shall be justified. It is recognised that the extent of characterisation data will increase during development. (4) The rationale for selection of the methods used for characterisation shall be provided and their suitability shall be justified. IIIa.2A3.2.
—
the various stages of manufacture (including production of the antigen and purification procedures) so that an assessment can be made of the reproducibility of the manufacturing procedure and of the risks of adverse effects on the finished products, such as microbiological contamination; the validation of key stages in the production process shall be demonstrated and the validation of the production process as a whole shall be demonstrated with provision of results of three consecutive batches produced using the method described,
—
in the case of continuous manufacture, full details concerning precautions taken to ensure the homogeneity and consistency of each batch of the finished product,
—
listing of all the substances at the appropriate steps where they are used, including those which cannot be recovered in the course of manufacturing,
—
the details of the blending, with the quantitative particulars of all the substances used,
—
a statement of the stages of manufacture at which sampling is carried out for control tests during production.

C. PRODUCTION AND CONTROL OF STARTING MATERIALS
For the purposes of this paragraph 'starting materials' means all components used in the production of the immunological veterinary medicinal product. Culture media consisting of several components used for production of the active substance shall be regarded as one starting material. Nevertheless, the qualitative and quantitative composition of the any culture media shall be presented in so far as the authorities consider that this information is relevant to the quality of the finished product and any risks that might be posed. If materials of animal origin are used for preparation of these culture media, the animal species and the tissue used have to be included. The dossier shall include the specifications, information on the tests to be conducted for the quality control of all batches of starting materials and results for a batch for all components used and shall be submitted in accordance with the following provisions. 1. Starting materials listed in pharmacopoeias
The monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be applicable to all starting materials appearing in it. In respect of other substances, each Member State may require observance of its own national pharmacopoeia with regard to products manufactured in its territory. Constituents fulfilling the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia or the pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States shall be deemed to comply sufficiently with Article 12(3)(i). In this case the description of the analytical methods may be replaced by a detailed reference to the pharmacopoeia in question. Colouring matter shall, in all cases, satisfy the requirements of Directive 78/25/EEC. The routine tests carried out on each batch of starting materials must be as stated in the application for marketing authorisation. If tests other than those mentioned in the pharmacopoeia are used, proof must be supplied that the starting materials meet the quality requirements of that pharmacopoeia. In cases where a specification or other provisions contained in a monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia or in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State might be insufficient to ensure the quality of the substance, the competent authorities may request more appropriate specifications from the applicant for marketing authorisation. The alleged insufficiency shall be reported to the authorities responsible for the pharmacopoeia in question. In cases where a starting material is described neither in the European Pharmacopoeia nor in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, compliance with the monograph of a third country pharmacopoeia can be accepted; in such cases, the applicant shall submit a copy of the monograph accompanied where necessary by the validation of the test procedures contained in the monograph and by a translation where appropriate. When starting materials of animal origin are used, they shall comply with the relevant monographs including general monographs and general chapters of the European Pharmacopoeia. The tests and controls conducted shall be appropriate to the starting material. The applicant shall supply documentation to demonstrate that the starting materials and the manufacturing of the veterinary medical product is in comply with the requirements of the Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products, as well as with the requirements of the corresponding monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia. Certificates of Suitability issued by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare, with reference to the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia, may be used to demonstrate compliance. 2. Starting materials not listed in a pharmacopoeia
2.1. Starting materials of biological origin
The description shall be given in the form of a monograph. Whenever possible, vaccine production shall be based on a seed lot system and on established cell seeds. For the production of immunological veterinary medicinal products consisting of serums, the origin, general health and immunological status of the producing animals shall be indicated and defined pools of source materials shall be used. The origin, including geographical region, and history of starting materials shall be described and documented. For genetically engineered starting materials this information shall include details such as the description of the starting cells or strains, the construction of the expression vector (name, origin, function of the replicon, promoter enhancer and other regulator elements), control of the sequence of DNA or RNA effectively inserted, oligonucleotidic sequences of plasmid vector in cells, plasmid used for cotransfection, added or deleted genes, biological properties of the final construct and the genes expressed, copy number and genetic stability. Seed materials, including cell seeds and raw serum for anti-serum production shall be tested for identity and extraneous agents. Information shall be provided on all substances of biological origin used at any stage in the manufacturing procedure. The information shall include: —
details of the source of the materials,
—
details of any processing, purification and inactivation applied, with data on the validation of these process and controls during production,
—
details of any tests for contamination carried out on each batch of the substance. If the presence of extraneous agents is detected or suspected, the corresponding material shall be discarded or used in very exceptional circumstances only when further processing of the product ensures their elimination and/or inactivation; elimination and/or inactivation of such extraneous agents shall be demonstrated. When cell seeds are used, the cell characteristics shall be shown to have remained unchanged up to the highest passage level used for the production. For live attenuated vaccines, proof of the stability of the attenuation characteristics of the seed has to be given. Documentation shall be supplied to demonstrate that the seed materials, cell seeds, batches of serum and other material originating from animal species relevant for the transmission of TSE comply with the Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products, as well as with the corresponding monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia. Certificates of Suitability issued by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare, with reference to the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia, can be used to demonstrate compliance. When required, samples of the biological starting material or reagents used in the testing procedures shall be provided to enable the competent authority to arrange for check tests to be carried out.
(13) 'antiparasitic' means a substance that kills or interrupts the development of parasites, used for the purpose of treating or preventing an infection, infestation or disease caused or transmitted by parasites, including substances with a repelling activity;
(13) 'antiparasitic' means a substance that kills or interrupts the development of parasites, used for the purpose of treating or preventing an infection, infestation or disease caused or transmitted by parasites, including substances with a repelling activity;
IIIa.2A3.2. Impurities
(1) Process-related impurities (for example, host cell proteins, host cell DNA, media residues, column leachables) and product-related impurities (for example, precursors, cleaved forms, degradation products, aggregates) shall be addressed. Quantitative information on impurities shall be provided including maximum amount for the highest dose. For certain process-related impurities (for example, antifoam agents), an estimation of clearance may be justified. (2) In the case that only qualitative data are provided for certain impurities, this shall be justified. IIIa.2B. Description of the manufacturing method
(1) The description of the manufacturing method accompanying the application for marketing authorisation pursuant to Article 8 shall be drafted in such a way as to give an adequate description of the nature of the operations employed. (2) The name(s) and address(es) and responsibilities of each manufacturer, including contractors, and each proposed production site or facility involved in manufacture, testing and batch release shall be provided. (3) The description of the manufacturing process shall include at least: (a) 
the various stages of manufacture, including production of the active substance and description of the purification steps; (b) 
a process flow chart of all successive steps shall be given so that an assessment can be made of the reproducibility of the manufacturing procedure and of the risks of adverse effects on the finished products, such as microbiological contamination; (c) 
in the case of continuous manufacture, full details concerning precautions taken to ensure the homogeneity and consistency of each batch of the finished product. Information on how a batch is defined and on the proposed commercial batch size(s) shall be provided; (d) 
listing of all the substances at the appropriate steps where they are used, including those which cannot be recovered in the course of manufacturing; (e) 
the details of the blending, with the quantitative particulars of all the substances used, including an example for a representative production batch; (f) 
list of in-process controls including the stage of manufacture at which they are conducted and acceptance criteria; (g) 
for sterile products, where non-pharmacopoeial sterilisation conditions are used, details of the sterilisation processes and/or aseptic procedures used. (4) Description, documentation, and results of the validation and/or evaluation studies shall be provided for critical steps or critical assays used in the manufacturing process (for example, validation of the sterilisation process or aseptic processing or filling) and the validation of the production process as a whole shall be demonstrated with provision of results of three consecutive batches produced using the method described. IIIa.2C. Production and control of starting materials
(1) For the purposes of this point 'starting materials' means all components, including the active substances used in the production of the biological veterinary medicinal product. Culture media used for production of the active substances shall be regarded as one starting material. (2) The qualitative and quantitative composition shall be presented insofar as the authorities consider that this information is relevant to the quality of the finished product and any risks that might be posed. (3) If materials of animal origin are used for preparation of those culture media, the animal species and the tissue used have to be included and compliance with the relevant monographs including general monographs and general chapters of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be demonstrated. (4) The applicant shall supply documentation to demonstrate that the starting materials, including seed materials, cell seeds, batches of serum and other material originating from animal species relevant for the transmission of TSE and the manufacturing of the veterinary medicinal product is in compliance with the requirements of the Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products, as well as with the requirements of the corresponding monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia. (5) Certificates of Suitability issued by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare, with reference to the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia, may be used to demonstrate compliance. (6) The dossier shall include the specifications, information on the tests to be conducted for the quality control of all batches of starting materials and results from a batch of all components used and shall be submitted in accordance with the following provisions. (7) Certificates of Analysis shall be presented for the starting materials in order to demonstrate compliance with the defined specification. (8) Colouring matter shall in all cases satisfy the requirements of Directive 2009/35/EC. (9) The use of antibiotics during production and preservatives shall be in compliance with the European Pharmacopoeia. (10) For novel excipients - excipient(s) used for the first time in the Union in a veterinary medicinal product or by a new route of administration - details of manufacture, characterisation, and controls, with cross references to supporting safety data, both clinical and non-clinical, shall be provided. For colouring matters the declarations of compliance as mentioned under Part II.2C2, points (3) and (4) shall be considered sufficient. IIIa.2C1. Starting materials listed in pharmacopoeias
(1) The monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be applicable to all starting materials appearing in it, unless adequate justification is provided. (2) In respect of other substances, each Member State may require observance of its own national pharmacopoeia with regard to products manufactured in its territory. (3) The description of the analytical methods may be replaced by a detailed reference to the pharmacopoeia in question. (4) The routine tests carried out on each batch of starting materials shall be as stated in the application for marketing authorisation. If tests other than those mentioned in the pharmacopoeia are used, proof shall be supplied that the starting materials meet the quality requirements of that pharmacopoeia. (5) Where a specification or other provisions contained in a monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia or in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State might be insufficient to ensure the quality of the substance, the competent authorities may request more appropriate specifications from the applicant for marketing authorisation. The alleged insufficiency shall be reported to the authorities responsible for the pharmacopoeia in question. IIIa.2C2. Starting materials not listed in a pharmacopoeia
IIIa.2C2.1. Starting materials of biological origin
(1) Where source materials such as microorganisms, tissues of either plant or animal origin, cells or fluids (including blood) of human or animal origin or biotechnological cell constructs are used in the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products, the origin, including geographical region, and history of starting materials shall be described and documented. The origin, general health and immunological status of animals used for production shall be indicated and defined pools of source materials shall be used. (2) Freedom from extraneous agents (bacteria, mycoplasma, fungi and viruses) shall be demonstrated in compliance with the European Pharmacopoeia for seed materials, including cell seeds and pools of serum and, whenever possible, the source materials from which they are derived. (3) Information shall be provided on all substances of biological origin used at any stage in the manufacturing procedure.
(14) 'antibiotic' means any substance with a direct action on bacteria that is used for treatment or prevention of infections or infectious diseases;
(14) 'antibiotic' means any substance with a direct action on bacteria that is used for treatment or prevention of infections or infectious diseases;
(3) Information shall be provided on all substances of biological origin used at any stage in the manufacturing procedure. The information shall include the manufacturing strategy, purification and inactivation procedures with their validation and all in-process control procedures designed to ensure the quality, safety and batch to batch consistency of the finished product as well as details of any tests for contamination carried out on each batch of the substance. Any special precautions which may be necessary during storage of the starting material and, if necessary, its storage life shall be given. (4) When starting materials of animal or human origin are used, the measures used to ensure freedom from extraneous agents shall be described. If the presence of extraneous agents is detected or suspected, the corresponding material shall be discarded or processed to reduce the risk of presence with a validated treatment. If after treatment presence is detected or suspected, the corresponding material shall be used only when further processing of the product ensures their elimination and/or inactivation; elimination and/or inactivation of such extraneous agents shall be demonstrated. (5) When cell seeds are used, the cell characteristics shall be shown to have remained unchanged up to the highest passage level used for the production. (6) For genetically engineered starting materials this information shall include details such as the description of the starting cells or strains, the construction of the expression vector (name, origin, function of the replicon, promoter enhancer and other regulator elements), control of the sequence of DNA or RNA effectively inserted, oligonucleotide sequences of plasmid vector in cells, plasmid used for cotransfection, added or deleted genes, biological properties of the final construct and the genes expressed, copy number and genetic stability. (7) In the case of veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms (GMO), the quality part of the application shall also be accompanied by the documents required in accordance with Directive 2001/18/EC. (8) When required, samples of the biological starting material or reagents used in the testing procedures shall be provided to enable the competent authority to arrange for check tests to be carried out. IIIa.2C2.2. Starting materials of non-biological origin
(1) The description shall be given in the form of a monograph under the following headings: (a) 
the name of the starting material meeting the requirements of point IIIa.2A1(4) shall be supplemented by any trade or scientific synonyms; (b) 
the description of the starting material, set down in a form similar to that used in a descriptive item in the European Pharmacopoeia; (c) 
the function of the starting material; (d) 
methods of identification; (e) 
any special precautions which may be necessary during storage of the starting material and, if necessary, its storage life shall be given. IIIa.2D. Control tests during the manufacturing process
(1) The dossier shall include particulars relating to the in-process control tests, which are carried out on intermediate stages of manufacture with a view to verify the consistency of the manufacturing process and the final product. Specifications shall be set for each control test and the analytical methods shall be described. Validation of the control tests shall be provided, unless otherwise justified. (2) The specification for the batch(es) of active substance shall define acceptance criteria together with the tests used to exert sufficient control of the quality of the active substance. A test for biological activity shall be included unless otherwise justified. Upper limits, taking into account safety considerations, shall be set for the impurities. Microbiological quality for the active substance shall be specified. Freedom from extraneous agents (bacteria, mycoplasma, fungi and viruses) shall be demonstrated according to the European Pharmacopoeia. (3) In accordance with Directive 2010/63/EU and the European Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals Used for Experimental and Other Scientific Purposes, tests shall be carried out in such a way as to use the minimum number of animals and to cause the least pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm. If available, an alternative in vitro test shall be used when this leads to replacement or reduction of animal use or reduction of suffering. IIIa.2E. Control tests on the finished product
IIIa.2E1 
Finish product specification
For all tests, the description of the techniques for analysing the finished product shall be set out in sufficient detail for quality assessment.Where appropriate monographs exist, if test procedures and limits other than those mentioned in the monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia, or failing this, in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, are used, proof must be supplied that the finished product would, if tested in accordance with those monographs, meet the quality requirements of that pharmacopoeia for the pharmaceutical form concerned. The application for marketing authorisation shall list those tests, which are carried out on representative samples of each batch of finished product. The frequency of the tests carried out on the final bulk instead of on the batch or batches prepared from it, shall be stated, if applicable. The frequency of the tests which are not carried out routinely shall be justified. Acceptance criteria for release shall be indicated and justified. Validation of the control tests carried out on the finished product shall be provided.Upper limits, taking into account safety considerations, shall be set for the impurities.IIIa.2E2 
Method descriptions and validation of release tests
(1) General characteristics
The tests of general characteristics shall, wherever applicable, relate to the appearance of the finished product and to physical or chemical tests, such as, pH, osmolality, etc. For each of those characteristics, specifications, with appropriate confidence limits, shall be established by the applicant in each particular case. (2) Identification and potency test
Where necessary, a specific test for identification of the active substance shall be carried out. When appropriate, the identification test may be combined with the potency test.An activity test or test for quantification of the active substance or test to quantitatively measure the functionality (biological activity/functional effect) which is linked to relevant biological properties shall be implemented to show that each batch will contain the appropriate potency to ensure its safety and efficacy.A biological assay shall be obligatory when physicochemical methods does not provide adequate information on the quality of the product. Such an assay shall, whenever possible, include reference materials and statistical analysis allowing calculation of confidence limits. Where those tests may not be carried out on the finished product, they may be performed at an intermediate stage, as late as possible in the manufacturing process.Where degradation occurs during manufacture of the finished product, the maximum acceptable levels of individual and total degradation products immediately following manufacture shall be indicated. (3) Identification and assay of excipient components
Insofar as is necessary, the excipient(s) shall be subject at least to identification tests. An upper and lower limit test shall be obligatory in respect of preserving agents. An upper limit test for any other excipient components liable to give rise to an adverse reaction shall be obligatory. If applicable, the quantity and nature of the adjuvant and its components shall be verified on the finished product, unless otherwise justified.
When required, samples of the biological starting material or reagents used in the testing procedures shall be provided to enable the competent authority to arrange for check tests to be carried out. 2.2. Starting materials of non-biological origin
The description shall be given in the form of a monograph under the following headings: —
the name of the starting material meeting the requirements of point 2 of Section A shall be supplemented by any trade or scientific synonyms,
—
the description of the starting material, set down in a form similar to that used in a descriptive item in the European Pharmacopoeia,
—
the function of the starting material,
—
methods of identification,
—
any special precautions which may be necessary during storage of the starting material and, if necessary, its storage life shall be given. D. CONTROL TESTS DURING THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS
(1) The dossier shall include particulars relating to the control tests, which are carried out on intermediate products with a view to verifying the consistency of the manufacturing process and the final product. (2) For inactivated or detoxified vaccines, inactivation or detoxification shall be tested during each production run as soon as possible after the end of the inactivation or detoxification process and after neutralisation if this occurs, but before the next step of production. E. CONTROL TESTS ON THE FINISHED PRODUCT
For all tests, the description of the techniques for analysing the finished product shall be set out in sufficiently precise detail for quality assessment. The dossier shall include particulars relating to control tests on the finished product. Where appropriate monographs exist, if test procedures and limits other than those mentioned in the monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia, or failing this, in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, are used, proof must be supplied that the finished product would, if tested in accordance with those monographs, meet the quality requirements of that pharmacopoeia for the pharmaceutical form concerned. The application for marketing authorisation shall list those tests, which are carried out on representative samples of each batch of finished product. The frequency of the tests, which are not carried out on each batch, shall be stated. Release limits shall be indicated. Where available, chemical and biological reference material of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be used. If other reference preparations and standards are used, they shall be identified and described in detail. 1. General characteristics of the finished product
The tests of general characteristics shall, wherever applicable, relate to the control of average masses and maximum deviations, to mechanical, physical or chemical tests, physical characteristics such as density, pH, viscosity, etc. For each of these characteristics, specifications, with appropriate confidence limits, shall be established by the applicant in each particular case. 2. Identification of active substance(s) 
Where necessary, a specific test for identification shall be carried out. 3. Batch titre or potency
A quantification of the active substance shall be carried out on each batch to show that each batch will contain the appropriate potency or titre to ensure its safety and efficacy. 4. Identification and assay of adjuvants
Insofar as testing procedures are available, the quantity and nature of the adjuvant and its components shall be verified on the finished product. 5. Identification and assay of excipient components
Insofar as is necessary, the excipient(s) shall be subject at least to identification tests. An upper and lower limit test shall be obligatory in respect of preserving agents. An upper limit test for any other excipient components liable to give rise to an adverse reaction shall be obligatory. 6. Safety tests
Apart from the results of tests submitted in accordance with Part 3 of this Title (Safety Tests), particulars of the batch safety tests shall be submitted. These tests shall preferably be overdosage studies carried out in at least one of the most sensitive target species and by at least the recommended route of administration posing the greatest risk. Routine application of the batch safety test may be waived in the interests of animal welfare when a sufficient number of consecutive production batches have been produced and been found to comply with the test. 7. Sterility and purity test
Appropriate tests to demonstrate the absence of contamination by extraneous agents or other substances shall be carried out according to the nature of the immunological veterinary medicinal product, the method and the conditions of manufacture. If fewer tests than required by the relevant European Pharmacopoeia are routinely employed for each batch, the tests carried out shall be critical to the compliance with the monograph. Proof must be supplied that the immunological veterinary medicinal product would meet the requirements, if fully tested according to the monograph. 8. Residual humidity
Each batch of lyophilised product shall be tested for residual humidity. 9. Inactivation
For inactivated vaccines, a test to verify inactivation shall be carried out on the product in the final container unless it has been conducted at a late stage in-process. F. BATCH-TO-BATCH CONSISTENCY
In order to ensure that quality of the product is consistent from batch to batch and to demonstrate conformity with specifications a full protocol of three consecutive batches giving the results for all tests performed during production and on the finished product shall be provided. G. STABILITY TESTS
The particulars and documents accompanying the application for marketing authorisation pursuant to Article 12(3)(f) and (i) shall be submitted in accordance with the following requirements. A description shall be given of the tests undertaken to support the shelf life proposed by the applicant. These tests shall always be real-time studies; they shall be carried out on a sufficient number of batches produced according to the described production process and on products stored in the final container(s); these tests include biological and physico-chemical stability tests. The conclusions shall contain the results of analyses, justifying the proposed shelf life under all proposed storage conditions. In the case of products administered in feed, information shall also be given as necessary on the shelf life of the product, at the different stages of mixing, when mixed in accordance with the recommended instructions. Where a finished product requires reconstitution prior to administration or is administered in drinking water, details of the proposed shelf life are required for the product reconstituted as recommended. Data in support of the proposed shelf life for the reconstituted product shall be submitted. Stability data obtained from combined products may be used as preliminary data for derivative products containing one or more of the same components. The proposed in-use shelf life shall be justified. The efficacy of any preservative system shall be demonstrated. Information on the efficacy of preservatives in other similar immunological veterinary medicinal products from the same manufacturer may be sufficient. H. OTHER INFORMATION
Information relating to the quality of the immunological veterinary medicinal product not covered by the previous sections may be included in the dossier. PART 3
Safety tests
A. INTRODUCTION AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
The safety tests shall show the potential risks from the immunological veterinary medicinal product, which may occur under the proposed conditions of use in animals: these shall be evaluated in relation to the potential benefits of the product.
(15) 'metaphylaxis' means the administration of a medicinal product to a group of animals after a diagnosis of clinical disease in part of the group has been established, with the aim of treating the clinically sick animals and controlling the spread of the disease to animals in close contact and at risk and which may already be subclinically infected;
(15) 'metaphylaxis' means the administration of a medicinal product to a group of animals after a diagnosis of clinical disease in part of the group has been established, with the aim of treating the clinically sick animals and controlling the spread of the disease to animals in close contact and at risk and which may already be subclinically infected;
PART 3
Safety tests
A. INTRODUCTION AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
The safety tests shall show the potential risks from the immunological veterinary medicinal product, which may occur under the proposed conditions of use in animals: these shall be evaluated in relation to the potential benefits of the product.

Where immunological veterinary medicinal products consist of live organisms, especially those, which could be shed by vaccinated animals, the potential risk to unvaccinated animals of the same or of any other potentially exposed species shall be evaluated. The safety studies shall be carried out in the target species. The dose to be used shall be the quantity of the product to be recommended for use and the batch used for safety testing shall be taken from a batch or batches produced according to the manufacturing process described in Part 2 of the application. In the case of an immunological veterinary medicinal products containing a live organism, the dose to be used in the laboratory tests described in Sections B.1 and B.2 shall be the quantity of the product containing the maximum titre. If necessary the concentration of the antigen may be adjusted to achieve the required dose. For inactivated vaccines the dose to be used shall be that quantity recommended for use containing the maximum antigen content unless justified. The safety documentation shall be used for assessment of the potential risks which may result from the exposure of human beings to the veterinary medicinal product, for example during its administration to the animal. B. LABORATORY TESTS
1. Safety of the administration of one dose
The immunological veterinary medicinal product shall be administered at the recommended dose and by each recommended route of administration to animals of each species and category in which it is intended for use, including animals of the minimum age of administration. The animals shall be observed and examined for signs of systemic and local reactions. Where appropriate, these studies shall include detailed post-mortem macroscopic and microscopic examinations of the injection site. Other objective criteria shall be recorded, such as rectal temperature and performance measurements. The animals shall be observed and examined until reactions may no longer be expected, but in all cases, the observation and examination period shall be at least 14 days after administration. This study may be part of the repeated dose study required under point 3 or omitted if the results of the overdose study required under point 2 have revealed no signs of systemic or local reactions. 2. Safety of one administration of an overdose
Only live immunological veterinary medicinal products require overdose testing. An overdose of the immunological veterinary medicinal product shall be administered by each recommended route(s) of administration to animals of the most sensitive categories of the target species, unless the selection of the most sensitive of several similar routes is justified. In the case of immunological veterinary medicinal products administered by injection, the doses and route(s) of administration shall be chosen to take account of the maximum volume, which can be administered at any one single injection site. The animals shall be observed and examined for at least 14 days after administration for signs of systemic and local reactions. Other criteria shall be recorded, such as rectal temperature and performance measurements. Where appropriate, these studies shall include detailed post-mortem macroscopic and microscopic examinations of the injection site if this has not been done under point 1. 3. Safety of the repeated administration of one dose
In the case of immunological veterinary medicinal products to be administered more than once, as part of the basic vaccination scheme, a study of the repeated administration of one dose shall be required to reveal any adverse effects induced by such administration. These tests shall be carried out on the most sensitive categories of the target species (such as certain breeds, age groups), using each recommended route of administration. The animals shall be observed and examined for at least 14 days after the last administration for signs of systemic and local reactions. Other objective criteria shall be recorded, such as rectal temperature and performance measurements. 4. Examination of reproductive performance
Examination of reproductive performance shall be considered when data suggest that the starting material from which the product is derived may be a potential risk factor. Reproductive performance of males and non-pregnant and pregnant females shall be investigated with the recommended dose and by the most sensitive route of administration. In addition, harmful effects on the progeny, as well as teratogenic and abortifacient effects, shall be investigated. These studies may form part of the safety studies described in points 1, 2, 3 or of the field studies provided for in Section C.
5. Examination of immunological functions
Where the immunological veterinary medicinal product might adversely affect the immune response of the vaccinated animal or of its progeny, suitable tests on the immunological functions shall be carried out. 6. Special requirements for live vaccines
6.1. Spread of the vaccine strain
Spread of the vaccine strain from vaccinated to unvaccinated target animals shall be investigated, using the recommended route of administration most likely to result in the spread. Moreover, it may be necessary to investigate the spread to non-target animal species which could be highly susceptible to a live vaccine strain. 6.2. Dissemination in the vaccinated animal
Faeces, urine, milk, eggs, oral, nasal and other secretions shall be tested for the presence of the organism as appropriate. Moreover, studies may be required of the dissemination of the vaccine strain in the body, with particular attention being paid to the predilection sites for replication of the organism. In the case of live vaccines for zoonoses within the meaning of Directive 2003/99/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (14) to be used for food producing animals, these studies must shall take particularly into account the persistence of the organism at the injection site. 6.3. Reversion to virulence of attenuated vaccines
Reversion to virulence shall be investigated with the master seed. If the master seed is not available in sufficient quantity the lowest passage seed used for the production shall be examined. Use of another passage option shall be justified. The initial vaccination shall be carried out using the route of administration most likely to lead to reversion to virulence. Serial passages shall be made in target animals through five groups of animals, unless there is justification to make more passages or the organism disappears from the test animals sooner. Where the organism fails to replicate adequately, as many passages as possible shall be carried out in the target species. 6.4. Biological properties of the vaccine strain
Other tests may be necessary to determine as precisely as possible the intrinsic biological properties of the vaccine strain (e.g. neurotropism). 6.5. Recombination or genomic reassortment of strains
The probability of recombination or genomic reassortment with field or other strains shall be discussed. 7. User safety
This section shall include a discussion of the effects found in the preceding sections, which shall relate those effects to the type and extent of human exposure to the product with a view to formulating appropriate user warnings and other risk management measures. 8. Study of residues
For immunological veterinary medicinal products, it will normally not be necessary to undertake a study of residues.
If applicable, the quantity and nature of the adjuvant and its components shall be verified on the finished product, unless otherwise justified. (4) Sterility and purity tests
Freedom from extraneous agents (bacteria, mycoplasma, fungi and bacterial endotoxin when relevant) shall be demonstrated in compliance with the European Pharmacopoeia. Appropriate tests to demonstrate the absence of contamination by other substances, shall be carried out according to the nature of the biological veterinary medicinal product, the method and the conditions of manufacture. If fewer tests than required by the relevant European Pharmacopoeia are routinely employed for each batch, the tests carried out shall be critical to the compliance with the monograph. Proof shall be supplied that the biological veterinary medicinal product would meet the requirements, if fully tested according to the monograph. (5) Residual humidity
Each batch of lyophilised product or tablet shall be tested for residual humidity. (6) Filling volume
Appropriate tests to demonstrate the correct filling volume shall be carried out.IIIa.2E3. Reference standards or materials
Information regarding the manufacturing process used to establish the reference material shall be provided. If more than one reference standard has been used for a particular test during product development, a qualification history shall be provided describing how the relationship between the different standards was maintained.If other reference preparations and standards than those of the European Pharmacopoeia are used, they shall be identified and described in detail.IIIa.2F. Batch-to-batch consistency
IIIa.2F1. Active substance
In order to ensure that quality of the active substance is consistent from batch to batch and to demonstrate conformity with specifications data from representative batches shall be provided.IIIa.2F2. Finished product
In order to ensure that quality of the product is consistent from batch to batch and to demonstrate conformity with specifications a full protocol of three consecutive batches representative of the routine production shall be provided.IIIa.2G. Stability tests
(1) Stability tests cover stability of the active substance and the finished product, including solvent(s), if relevant. If active substance(s) are stored, the intended conditions and duration of storage shall be defined on the basis of stability data; they may be obtained either through testing of the active substances themselves or through appropriate testing of the finished product. (2) A description shall be given of the tests undertaken to support the shelf life, the recommended storage conditions and the specifications at the end of the shelf life proposed by the applicant. Those tests shall always be real-time studies; they shall be carried out on not fewer than three representative batches produced according to the described production process and on products stored in the final container(s); those tests include biological and physicochemical stability tests carried out at regular intervals, for the finished product until the claimed end of the shelf life. (3) The conclusions shall contain the results of analyses, justifying the proposed shelf life under all proposed storage conditions. The results obtained during the stability study shall be taken into account when defining appropriate formulation and release specifications to ensure the conformity of the product with the claimed shelf life. (4) In the case of products administered in feed, information shall also be given as necessary on the shelf life of the product, at the different stages of mixing, when mixed in accordance with the recommended instructions. (5) Where a finished product requires reconstitution prior to administration or is administered in drinking water, details of the proposed shelf life are required for the product reconstituted as recommended. Data in support of the proposed shelf life for the reconstituted product shall be submitted. (6) In the case of multi-dose containers, where relevant, stability data shall be presented to justify a shelf life for the product after it has been broached or opened for the first time and an in-use specification shall be defined. (7) Where a finished product is liable to give rise to degradation products, the applicant shall declare those products and indicate the identification methods and test procedures used. (8) Stability data obtained from combined products may be used where adequately justified for derivative products containing one or more of the same components. (9) The efficacy of any preservative system shall be demonstrated. Information on the efficacy of preservatives in other similar biological veterinary medicinal products from the same manufacturer may be sufficient. IIIa.2H. Other information
Information relating to the quality of the biological veterinary medicinal product not covered by Part IIIa.2 to IIIa2G may be included in the dossier.IIIa.3. Part 3: Safety documentation (safety and residues tests)
(1) Each study report shall include: (a) 
a copy of the study plan (protocol); (b) 
a statement of compliance with good laboratory practice, where applicable; (c) 
a description of the methods, apparatus and materials used; (d) 
a description and justification of the test system; (e) 
a description of the results obtained, in sufficient detail to allow the results to be critically evaluated independently of their interpretation by the author; (f) 
a statistical analysis of the results where appropriate; (g) 
a discussion of the results, with comment on observed and no-observed-effect levels, and on any unusual findings; (h) 
the name of the laboratory; (i) 
the name of the study director; (j) 
signature and date; (k) 
place and period of time during which the study was undertaken; (l) 
key for abbreviations and codes, irrespective of whether they are internationally accepted or not; (m) 
description of mathematical and statistical procedures. (2) Published studies may be accepted if they contain a sufficient amount of data and sufficient details to allow an independent assessment. The experimental techniques shall be described in such detail as to allow them to be reproduced, and the investigator shall establish their validity. Summaries of studies for which detailed reports are not available shall not be accepted as valid documentation. To address certain safety requirements reference may be made to EPMAR when the substance has been previously evaluated for the establishment of MRLs. Where reference to EPMARs is made there is no need to submit studies already evaluated as part of the MRL evaluation; only new studies not available for the MRL assessment shall be provided. If the route of exposure (for example, for the user) is not identical to the route used in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2018/78, new studies may be necessary. IIIa.3A. Safety tests
(1) The safety documentation shall be adequate for assessment of: (a) 
the potential toxicity of the veterinary medicinal product and any dangerous or undesirable effects in target species which may occur under the proposed conditions of use; (b) 
the potential risks which may result from the exposure of human beings to the veterinary medicinal product, for example, during its administration to the animal; (c) 
the potential risks to the environment resulting from the use of the veterinary medicinal product. (2) In some cases, it may be necessary to test the metabolites of the parent compound where these represent the residues of concern. (3) An excipient used for the first time in a veterinary medicinal product or by a new means of administration shall be treated like an active substance. (4) All sections listed in Part IIIa.3A shall be addressed. Depending on the nature of the product, certain sections may not be relevant and studies may be omitted, where justified. IIIa.3A1. Precise identification of the product and of its active substance(s):
8. Study of residues
For immunological veterinary medicinal products, it will normally not be necessary to undertake a study of residues.

However, where adjuvants and/or preservatives are used in the manufacture of immunological veterinary medicinal products, consideration shall be given to the possibility of any residue remaining in the foodstuffs. If necessary, the effects of such residues shall be investigated. A proposal for a withdrawal period shall be made and its adequacy shall be discussed in relation to any residue studies which have been undertaken. 9. Interactions
If there is a compatibility statement with other veterinary immunological products in the summary of product characteristics the safety of the association shall be investigated. Any other known interactions with veterinary medicinal products shall be described. C. FIELD STUDIES
Unless justified, results from laboratory studies shall be supplemented with data from field studies, using batches according to the manufacturing process described in the marketing authorisation application. Both safety and efficacy may be investigated in the same field studies. D. ENVIRONMENTAL RISK ASSESSMENT
The purpose of the environmental risk assessment is to assess the potential harmful effects, which the use of the product may cause to the environment and to identify any precautionary measures, which may be necessary to reduce such risks. This assessment shall normally be conducted in two phases. The first phase of the assessment shall always be performed. The details of the assessment shall be provided in accordance with established guidance. It shall indicate the potential exposure of the environment to the product and the level of risk associated with any such exposure, taking into account in particular the following items: —
the target animal species and the proposed pattern of use,
—
the method of administration, in particular the likely extent to which the product will enter directly into the environmental system,
—
the possible excretion of the product, its active substances into the environment by treated animals, persistence in such excreta,
—
the disposal of unused or waste product. In the case of live vaccine strains which may be zoonotic, the risk to humans shall be assessed. Where the conclusions of the first phase indicate potential exposure of the environment to the product, the applicant shall proceed to the second phase and evaluate the potential risk(s) that the veterinary medicinal product might pose to the environment. Where necessary, further investigations on the impact of the product (soil, water, air, aquatic systems, non-target organisms) shall be carried out. E. ASSESSMENT REQUIRED FOR VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS CONTAINING OR CONSISTING OF GENETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISMS
In the case of veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms the application shall also be accompanied by the documents required under Article 2 and Part C of Directive 2001/18/EC. PART 4
Efficacy tests
Chapter I
1. General principles
The purpose of the trials described in this Part is to demonstrate or to confirm the efficacy of the immunological veterinary medicinal product. All claims made by the applicant with regard to the properties, effects and use of the product, shall be fully supported by results of specific trials contained in the application for marketing authorisation. 2. Performance of trials
All efficacy trials shall be conducted in accordance with a fully considered detailed protocol, which shall be recorded in writing prior to commencement of the trial. The welfare of the trial animals shall be subject to veterinary supervision and shall be taken fully into consideration during the elaboration of any trial protocol and throughout the conduct of the trial. Pre-established systematic written procedures for the organisation, conduct, data collection, documentation and verification of efficacy trials shall be required. Field trials shall be conducted in accordance with established principles of good clinical practice, unless otherwise justified. Before the commencement of any field trial, the informed consent of the owner of the animals to be used in the trial shall be obtained and documented. In particular, the animal owner shall be informed in writing of the consequences of participation in the trial for the subsequent disposal of treated animals or for the taking of foodstuffs from treated animals. A copy of this notification, countersigned and dated by the animal owner, shall be included in the trial documentation. Unless the field trial is conducted with a blind design, the provisions of Articles 55, 56 and 57 shall apply by analogy to the labelling of formulations intended for use in veterinary field trials. In all cases, the words 'for veterinary field trial use only' shall appear prominently and indelibly upon the labelling. Chapter II
A. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
 1. The choice of antigens or vaccine strains shall be justified on the basis of epizoological data. 2. Efficacy trials carried out in the laboratory shall be controlled trials, including untreated control animals unless this is not justified for animal welfare reasons and efficacy can be otherwise demonstrated. In general, these laboratory trials shall be supported by trials carried out in field conditions, including untreated control animals. All trials shall be described in sufficiently precise details so as to be reproducible in controlled trials, carried out at the request of the competent authorities. The investigator shall demonstrate the validity of all the techniques involved. All results obtained, whether favourable or unfavourable, shall be reported. 3. The efficacy of an immunological veterinary medicinal product shall be demonstrated for each category of target animal species recommended for vaccination, by each recommended route of administration and using the proposed schedule of administration. The influence of passively acquired and maternally derived antibodies on the efficacy of a vaccine shall be adequately evaluated, if appropriate. Unless justified, the onset and duration of immunity shall be established and supported by data from trials. 4. The efficacy of each of the components of multivalent and combined immunological veterinary medicinal products shall be demonstrated. If the product is recommended for administration in combination with or at the same time as another veterinary medicinal product, they shall be shown to be compatible. 5. Whenever a product forms part of a vaccination scheme recommended by the applicant, the priming or booster effect or the contribution of the veterinary immunological product to the efficacy of the scheme as a whole shall be demonstrated. 6. The dose to be used shall be the quantity of the product to be recommended for use and the batch used for efficacy testing shall be taken from a batch or batches produced according to the manufacturing process described in Part 2 of the application. 7. If there is a compatibility statement with other immunological products in the summary of product characteristics, the efficacy of the association shall be investigated. Any other known interactions with any other veterinary medicinal products shall be described. Concurrent or simultaneous use may be allowed if supported by appropriate studies. 8. For diagnostic immunological veterinary medicinal products administered to animals, the applicant shall indicate how reactions to the product are to be interpreted. 9. For vaccines intended to allow a distinction between vaccinated and infected animals (marker vaccines), where the efficacy claim is reliant on in vitro diagnostic tests, sufficient data on the diagnostic tests shall be provided to allow adequate assessment of the claims related to the marker properties.
Precise identification of the product and of its active substance(s): (a) 
international non-proprietary name (INN); (b) 
International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry Name (IUPAC); (c) 
Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) number; (d) 
therapeutic, pharmacological and chemical classification; (e) 
synonyms and abbreviations; (f) 
structural formula; (g) 
molecular formula; (h) 
molecular weight; (i) 
degree of impurity; (j) 
qualitative and quantitative composition of impurities; (k) 
description of physical properties; (l) 
solubility in water and organic solvents expressed in g/l, with indication of temperature; (m) 
refraction of light, optical rotation, etc.; (n) 
formulation of the product. IIIa.3A2. Pharmacology
(1) Pharmacological studies are of fundamental importance in clarifying the mechanisms by which the veterinary medicinal product produces its therapeutic effects, and therefore pharmacological studies conducted in the target species of animal and where applicable in non-target species, shall be included. Cross-reference may be made, if applicable, to studies submitted in Part 4 of the dossier. (2) Pharmacological studies may also assist in the understanding of toxicological phenomena. Where a veterinary medicinal product produces pharmacological effects in the absence of a toxic response, or at doses lower than those required to elicit toxicity, those pharmacological effects shall be taken into account during the evaluation of the safety of the veterinary medicinal product. (3) The safety documentation shall always be preceded by details of pharmacological investigations undertaken in laboratory animals and all relevant information observed during clinical studies in the target animal. IIIa.3A2.1. Pharmacodynamics
Information on the mechanism of action of the active substance(s) shall be provided, together with information on primary and secondary pharmacodynamic effects in order to assist in the understanding of any adverse effects in the animal studies. Detailed reporting of pharmacodynamic properties relating to the therapeutic effect shall be reported in Part 4A of the dossier.IIIa.3A2.2. Pharmacokinetics
Data on the fate of the active substance and its metabolites in laboratory animals shall be provided, covering absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME). The data shall be related to the dose/effect findings in the pharmacological and toxicological studies, to determine adequate exposure.IIIa.3A3. Toxicology
(1) The documentation on toxicology shall follow the guidance published by the Agency on the general approach to testing and guidance on particular studies. This guidance includes toxicological data required for the establishment of user safety, and the assessment of adverse effects in target animals and the environment. (2) Toxicity studies shall be conducted with the active substance(s), not with the formulated product, unless specifically required otherwise. (3) Animal studies shall be conducted in established strains of laboratory animals for which (preferably) historical data are available. IIIa.3A3.1. Single-dose toxicity
Single-dose toxicity studies may be used to predict: (a) 
the possible effects of acute overdose in the target species; (b) 
the possible effects of accidental administration to humans; (c) 
the doses which may usefully be employed in the repeat dose studies. Single-dose toxicity studies shall reveal the acute toxic effects of the substance and the time course for their onset and remission.The studies to be carried out shall be selected with a view to providing information on user safety, for example, if substantial exposure by inhalation or dermal contact of the user of the veterinary medicinal product is anticipated, those routes of exposure shall be studied.IIIa.3A3.2. Repeat-dose toxicity
Repeat-dose toxicity tests are intended to reveal any physiological and/or pathological changes induced by repeated administration of the active substance or combination of active substances under examination, and to determine how those changes are related to dosage.A repeat-dose toxicity study in one species of experimental animal shall normally be sufficient. This study may be replaced by a study conducted in the target animal. The frequency and route of administration, and the duration of the study shall be chosen having regard to the proposed conditions of clinical use and/or user exposure. The applicant shall give his reasons for the extent and duration of the studies and the dosages chosen.IIIa.3A3.3. Tolerance in the target species
A summary shall be provided of any signs of intolerance which have been observed during studies conducted, usually with the final formulation, in the target species in accordance with the requirements of Part IIIa.4A4 (target animal safety). The studies concerned, the dosages at which the intolerance occurred, and the species and breeds concerned shall be identified. Details of any unexpected physiological changes shall also be provided. The full reports of those studies shall be included in Part 4 of the dossier.IIIa.3A3.4. Reproductive toxicity including developmental toxicity
(1) Study of the effects on reproduction
For products intended for use in breeding animals, reproductive safety studies in line with VICH GL43 shall be provided. Reproduction toxicity studies in laboratory animals are not expected for the evaluation of effects on the user. (2) Study of developmental toxicity
For the evaluation of effects in the target animal species, developmental toxicity studies are not required for products intended only for use in non-breeding animals. For other products a study of developmental toxicity shall be performed in at least one species, which may be the target species.For the evaluation of user safety, standard developmental toxicity testing in accordance with standard tests based on established guidance (including VICH GL32 and OECD tests) shall be performed in all cases where significant user exposure may be expected.IIIa.3A3.5. Genotoxicity
Tests for genotoxic potential shall be performed, unless otherwise justified, to reveal changes which a substance may cause in the genetic material of cells. Any substance intended to be included in a veterinary medicinal product for the first time shall be assessed for genotoxic properties.A standard battery of genotoxicity tests in accordance with standard tests based on established guidance (including VICH GL23 and OECD tests) shall usually be carried out on the active substance(s).IIIa.3A3.6. Carcinogenicity
The decision on whether carcinogenicity testing is required shall take into account the results of genotoxicity tests, structure-activity relationships and the findings in repeat dose toxicity tests that may demonstrate the potential for hyper-/neo-plastic changes.Any known species specificity of the mechanism of toxicity shall be considered, as well as any differences in metabolism between the test species, target animal species, and human beings.Carcinogenicity testing shall be conducted in accordance with standard tests based on established guidance (including VICH GL28 and OECD tests).IIIa.3A3.7. Exceptions
Where a veterinary medicinal product is intended for topical use, systemic absorption shall be investigated in the target animal species. If it is proved that systemic absorption is negligible, the repeated dose toxicity tests, the tests for developmental toxicity and the carcinogenicity tests may be omitted, unless: (a) 
under the intended conditions of use, oral ingestion of the veterinary medicinal product by the animal is to be expected, or
(b) 
under the intended conditions of use, oral exposure of the user of the veterinary medicinal product is to be expected. IIIa.3A4. Other requirements
IIIa.3A4.1.
(16) 'prophylaxis' means the administration of a medicinal product to an animal or group of animals before clinical signs of a disease, in order to prevent the occurrence of disease or infection;
(16) 'prophylaxis' means the administration of a medicinal product to an animal or group of animals before clinical signs of a disease, in order to prevent the occurrence of disease or infection;
(17) 'clinical trial' means a study which aims to examine under field conditions the safety or efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product under normal conditions of animal husbandry or as part of normal veterinary practice for the purpose of obtaining a marketing authorisation or a change thereof;
9. For vaccines intended to allow a distinction between vaccinated and infected animals (marker vaccines), where the efficacy claim is reliant on in vitro diagnostic tests, sufficient data on the diagnostic tests shall be provided to allow adequate assessment of the claims related to the marker properties. B. LABORATORY TRIALS
 1. In principle, demonstration of efficacy shall be undertaken under well-controlled laboratory conditions by challenge after administration of the immunological veterinary medicinal product to the target animal under the recommended conditions of use. Insofar as possible, the conditions under which the challenge is carried out shall mimic the natural conditions for infection. Details of the challenge strain and its relevance shall be provided. For live vaccines, batches containing the minimum titre or potency shall be used unless justified. For other products, batches containing the minimum active content shall be used unless otherwise justified. 2. If possible, the immune mechanism (cell-mediated/humoral, local/general classes of immunoglobulin) which is initiated after the administration of the immunological veterinary medicinal product to target animals by the recommended route of administration shall be specified and documented. C. FIELD TRIALS
 1. Unless justified, results from laboratory trials shall be supplemented with data from field trials, using batches representative of the manufacturing process described in the marketing authorisation application. Both safety and efficacy may be investigated in the same field study. 2. Where laboratory trials cannot be supportive of efficacy, the performance of field trials alone may be acceptable. PART 5
Particulars and documents
A. INTRODUCTION
The dossier of the safety and efficacy studies shall include an introduction defining the subject and indicating the tests which have been carried out in compliance with Parts 3 and 4 as well as a summary, with detailed references to the published literature. This summary shall contain an objective discussion of all the results obtained and lead to a conclusion on the safety and efficacy of the immunological veterinary medicinal product. Omission of any tests or trials listed shall be indicated and discussed. B. LABORATORY STUDIES
The following shall be provided for all studies: (1) a summary; (2) the name of the body having carried out the studies; (3) a detailed experimental protocol giving a description of the methods, apparatus and materials used, details such as species or breed of animals, categories of animals, where they were obtained, their identification and number, the conditions under which they were housed and fed (stating, inter alia, whether they were free from any specified pathogens and/or specified antibodies, the nature and quantity of any additives contained in the feed), dose, route, schedule and dates of administration, a description and a justification of the statistical methods used; (4) in the case of control animals, whether they received a placebo or no treatment; (5) in the case of treated animals and where appropriate, whether they received the test product or another product authorised in the Community; (6) all general and individual observations and results obtained (with averages and standard deviations), whether favourable or unfavourable. The data shall be described in sufficient detail to allow the results to be critically evaluated independently of their interpretation by the author. The raw data shall be presented in tabular form. By way of explanation and illustration, the results may be accompanied by reproductions of recordings, photomicrographs, etc.; (7) the nature, frequency and duration of observed adverse reactions; (8) the number of animals withdrawn prematurely from the studies and reasons for such withdrawal; (9) a statistical analysis of the results, where such is called for by the test programme, and variance within the data; (10) occurrence and course of any intercurrent disease; (11) all details concerning veterinary medicinal products (other than the product under study), the administration of which was necessary during the course of the study; (12) an objective discussion of the results obtained, leading to conclusions on the safety and efficacy of the product. C. FIELD STUDIES
Particulars concerning field studies shall be sufficiently detailed to enable an objective judgement to be made. They shall include the following: (1) a summary; (2) name, address, function and qualifications of the investigator in charge; (3) place and date of administration, identity code that can be linked to the name and address of the owner of the animal(s); (4) details of the trial protocol, giving a description of the methods, apparatus and materials used, details such as the route of administration, the schedule of administration, the dose, the categories of animals, the duration of observation, the serological response and other investigations carried out on the animals after administration; (5) in the case of control animals, whether they received a placebo or no treatment; (6) identification of the treated and control animals (collective or individual, as appropriate), such as species, breeds or strains, age, weight, sex, physiological status; (7) a brief description of the method of rearing and feeding, stating the nature and quantity of any additives contained in the feed; (8) all the particulars on observations, performances and results (with averages and standard deviation); individual data shall be indicated when tests and measurements on individuals have been carried out; (9) all observations and results of the studies, whether favourable or unfavourable, with a full statement of the observations and the results of the objective tests of activity required to evaluate the product; the techniques used must be specified and the significance of any variations in the results explained; (10) effects on the animals' performance; (11) the number of animals withdrawn prematurely from the studies and reasons for such withdrawal; (12) the nature, frequency and duration of observed adverse reactions; (13) occurrence and course of any intercurrent disease; (14) all details concerning veterinary medicinal products (other than the product under study) which have been administered either prior to or concurrently with the test product or during the observation period; details of any interactions observed; (15) an objective discussion of the results obtained, leading to conclusions on the safety and efficacy of the product. PART 6
Bibliographical references
The bibliographical references cited in the summary mentioned under Part 1 shall be listed in detail and copies shall be provided. TITLE III
Requirements for specific marketing authorisation applications
1. Generic veterinary medicinal products
Applications based on Article 13 (generic veterinary medicinal products) shall contain the data referred to in Parts 1 and 2 of Title I of this Annex together with an environmental risk assessment and data demonstrating that the product has the same qualitative and quantitative composition in active substances and the same pharmaceutical form as the reference medicinal product and data showing bio-equivalence with the reference medicinal product. If the reference veterinary medicinal product is a biological medicinal product, the documentation requirements in Section 2 for similar biological veterinary medicinal products shall be fulfilled. For generic veterinary medicinal products the detailed and critical summaries on safety and efficacy shall particularly focus on the following elements:
(17) 'clinical trial' means a study which aims to examine under field conditions the safety or efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product under normal conditions of animal husbandry or as part of normal veterinary practice for the purpose of obtaining a marketing authorisation or a change thereof;
Other requirements
IIIa.3A4.1.

Special studies
For particular groups of substances, or if the effects observed during repeated dose studies in animals include changes indicative of, for example, immunogenicity, immunotoxicity, neurotoxicity or endocrine dysfunction, further testing shall be required, for example, sensitisation studies or delayed neurotoxicity tests. Depending on the nature of the product, it may be necessary to conduct additional studies to assess the underlying mechanism of the toxic effect or the irritation potential.For products for which there may be exposure to skin and eyes, irritation and sensitisation studies shall be provided. Those studies shall usually be conducted with the final formulation.The state of scientific knowledge and established guidance shall be taken into account when designing such studies and evaluating their results.IIIa.3A4.2. Observations in humans
Information shall be provided on whether the pharmacologically active substances of the veterinary medicinal product are used as medicinal products in human therapy; if this the case, a compilation shall be made from published studies of all the effects observed (including adverse reactions) in humans and of their cause, to the extent that they may be important for the assessment of the safety of the veterinary medicinal product, where constituents of the veterinary medicinal products are themselves not used or are no longer used as medicinal products in human therapy for safety reasons, they shall be stated if publicly available.IIIa.3A4.3. Development of resistance and related risk in humans
The data requirements mentioned in this point are related to antibacterial substances and may not be applicable to other types of antimicrobial (namely antivirals, antifungals and antiprotozoals); for substances other than antibacterial for which the existence of antimicrobial resistance is well established, the same requirements may be followed, where applicable.Data on the potential emergence of resistant bacteria or resistance determinants of relevance for human health which are associated with the use of veterinary medicinal products are necessary. The mechanism of the development and selection of such resistance is particularly important in this regard. Where necessary, measures to limit resistance development from the intended use of the veterinary medicinal product shall be proposed.Resistance data relevant for clinical use of the product in target animals shall be addressed in accordance with Part IIIa.4A2. Where relevant, cross reference shall be made to the data set out in Part IIIa.4A2. (1) For food-producing animals the risk assessment shall address: (a) 
the identification of resistant bacteria or resistance determinants that could be associated with human illness (zoonotic and/or commensal bacteria) and are selected by the use of the antimicrobial veterinary medicinal product in target animals (hazard identification); (b) 
the probability of release of the identified hazard(s) from the target animal species as a result of the use of the veterinary medicinal product under consideration; (c) 
the probability of subsequent human exposure to the identified hazard(s) via the foodborne route or through direct contact, and the resulting consequences (adverse health effects) to human health. Guidance is available in VICH GL27 and EU GLs. (2) For companion animals, consideration of risk to human or public health shall address: (a) 
the identification of resistant bacteria or resistance determinants that could be associated with human illness and are selected by the use of the antimicrobial veterinary medicinal product in target animals; (b) 
an estimate of exposure of zoonotic and commensal bacteria in the target animal species based on the conditions of use of the veterinary medicinal product under consideration; (c) 
consideration of subsequent human exposure to AMR, and the resulting consequences to human health. (3) Resistance in the environment shall be addressed. IIIa.3A5. User safety
The user safety section shall include an assessment of the effects found in Part IIIa.3A to IIIa.3A4 and relate this to the type and extent of human exposure to the product with a view to formulating appropriate user warnings and other risk management measures.User safety shall be addressed in accordance with CVMP guidelines.IIIa.3A6. Environmental risk assessment
IIIa.3A6.1. Environmental risk assessment of veterinary medicinal products not containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms
(1) An environmental risk assessment shall be performed to assess the potential harmful effects, which the use of the veterinary medicinal product may cause to the environment and to identify the risk of such effects. The assessment shall also identify any precautionary measures which may be necessary to reduce such risk. (2) This assessment consists of two phases. The first phase of the assessment shall always be performed. The details of the assessment shall be provided in accordance with guidance published by the Agency. It shall indicate the potential exposure of the environment to the product and the level of risk associated with any such exposure taking into account in particular the following items: (a) 
the target animal species, and the proposed pattern of use; (b) 
the method of administration, in particular the likely extent to which the product will enter directly into environmental systems; (c) 
the possible excretion of the product, its active substances or relevant metabolites into the environment by treated animals; persistence in such excreta; (d) 
the disposal of unused veterinary medicinal product or other waste product. (3) In the second phase, further specific investigation of the fate and effects of the product on particular ecosystems shall be conducted, in accordance with guidance published by the Agency. The extent of exposure of the product to the environment, and the available information about the physical/chemical, pharmacological and/or toxicological properties of the substance(s) concerned, including metabolites in case of an identified risk, which has been obtained during the conduct of the other tests and trials required by this Regulation, shall be taken into consideration. For products intended for food producing species persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) or very persistent and very bioaccumulative (vPvB) substances shall be classified according to the criteria in Annex XIII to the REACH Regulation and assessed in accordance with the guidance for PBT and vPvB assessment of substances in veterinary medicines published by the AgencyIIIa.3A6.2. Environmental risk assessment for veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms
(1) In the case of a veterinary medicinal product containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms the application shall also be accompanied by the documents required under Article 2 and Part C of Directive 2001/18/EC. (2) Potential adverse effects on human health and the environment, which may occur through gene transfer from GMOs to other organisms or arise from genetic modifications, shall be accurately assessed on a case-by-case basis. The objective of such an environmental risk assessment is to identify and evaluate potential direct and indirect, immediate or delayed adverse effects of the GMO on human health and the environment (including plants and animals) and shall be carried out in accordance with the principles of Annex II to Directive 2001/18/EC. IIIa.3B. Residue tests
(1) For the purposes of this point, the definitions of Regulation (EC) No 470/2009 shall apply. (2) The purpose of studying the depletion of residues from the edible tissues or from eggs, milk and honey (wax if appropriate) derived from treated animals is to determine under what conditions and to what extent residues may persist in foodstuffs produced from those animals.
(18) 'pre-clinical study' means a study not covered by the definition of clinical trial which aims to investigate the safety or efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product for the purpose of obtaining a marketing authorisation or a change thereof;
(2) The purpose of studying the depletion of residues from the edible tissues or from eggs, milk and honey (wax if appropriate) derived from treated animals is to determine under what conditions and to what extent residues may persist in foodstuffs produced from those animals. In addition, the studies shall enable the determination of a withdrawal period. (3) In the case of veterinary medicinal products intended for use in food-producing animals, the residue documentation shall show: (a) 
to what extent, and for how long, residues of the veterinary medicinal product or its metabolites persist in the edible tissues of the treated animal or in milk, eggs and/or honey (wax if appropriate) obtained therefrom; (b) 
that in order to prevent any risk to the health of the consumer of foodstuffs from treated animals, it is possible to establish realistic withdrawal periods which may be observed under practical farming conditions; (c) 
that the analytical method(s) used in the residue depletion study are sufficiently validated to provide the necessary reassurance that the residues data submitted are suitable as the basis for a withdrawal period. IIIa.3B1. Identification of the product
An identification of the veterinary medicinal product(s) used in the testing shall be provided, including: (a) 
composition; (b) 
the physical and chemical (potency and purity) test results for the relevant batch(es); (c) 
batch identification. IIIa.3B2. Depletion of residues
(1) The purpose of these studies, which measure the rate at which residues deplete in the target animal after the last administration of the veterinary medicinal product, is to permit the determination of withdrawal periods necessary to ensure that no residues which might constitute a hazard for consumers are present in foodstuffs obtained from treated animals. (2) The current status of the maximum residue limits for the components of the veterinary medicinal product in the relevant target species shall be reported. (3) The levels of residues present shall be determined at a sufficient number of time points after the test animals have received the final dose of the veterinary medicinal product. The studies in mammals and birds shall be performed according to VICH GL48 and other relevant guidelines. Residue studies in honey shall be performed according to VICH GL56 and depletion studies in aquatic species according to VICH GL57. (4) Based on the evaluation, the rationale for the proposed withdrawal period shall be addressed. IIIa.3B3. Residue analytical method
(1) The residue depletion study (studies), the analytical method(s) and its (their) validation shall be performed in accordance with VICH GL49. (2) The suitability of the analytical method proposed shall be evaluated with regard to the state of scientific and technical knowledge at the time the application is submitted. IIIa.4. Part 4: Efficacy documentation (pre-clinical studies and clinical trial(s))
IIIa.4A. Pre-clinical studies
Pre-clinical studies aim to investigate the target animal safety and efficacy of the product and are required to establish the pharmacological activity, pharmacokinetic properties, dose and dosing interval, resistance (if applicable) and the target animal tolerance of the product.IIIa.4A1. Pharmacology
IIIa.4A1.1. Pharmacodynamics
(1) The pharmacodynamic effects of the active substance(s) included in the veterinary medicinal product shall be characterised. (2) The mode of action and the pharmacological effects on which the recommended application in practice is based shall be adequately described, including secondary effects (if any). In general, the effects on the main body functions shall be investigated. The results shall be expressed in quantitative terms (using, for example, dose-effect curves, time-effect curves, etc.) and, wherever possible, in comparison with a substance the activity of which is well known. Where a higher activity is being claimed for an active substance, the difference shall be demonstrated and shown to be statistically significant. (3) Any effect of the other characteristics of the products (such as the route of administration or formulation) on the pharmacological activity of the active substance shall be investigated. (4) The experimental techniques, unless they are standard procedures, shall be described in such detail as to allow them to be reproduced, and their validity to be established. The experimental results shall be set out clearly and the outcome of any statistical comparisons presented. (5) Unless adequate reasons are given to the contrary, any quantitative modification of responses resulting from repeated administration of the substance shall also be investigated. IIIa.4A1.2. Pharmacokinetics
(1) Basic pharmacokinetic data on the active substance are required in the context of assessment of the target animal safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product in the target species, particularly if this concerns a new substance or formulation. (2) The objectives of pharmacokinetic studies in the target animal species may be divided into four main areas: (a) 
to describe the basic pharmacokinetic characteristics (namely absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion) of the active substance in the formulation; (b) 
to investigate the relationships between dosage regimen, plasma and tissue concentration over time and pharmacological, therapeutic or toxic effects; (c) 
where appropriate, to compare pharmacokinetic parameters between different target species and to explore possible species differences having an impact on target animal safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product; (d) 
where appropriate, to compare bioavailability to support bridging of safety and efficacy information between different products, pharmaceutical forms, strengths or routes of administration, or to compare the impact of changes in manufacturing or composition, including pilot and final formulations. (3) In the target animal species, pharmacokinetic studies are, as a rule, necessary as a complement to the pharmacodynamic studies to support the establishment of safe and effective dosage regimens (route and site of administration, dose, dosing interval, number of administrations, etc.). Additional pharmacokinetic studies may be required to establish dosage regimens according to certain population variables. (4) Where pharmacokinetic studies have been submitted under Part 3 of the dossier, cross-reference to such studies may be made. (5) For fixed combinations, please refer to Section IV. IIIa.4A2. Development of resistance and related risk in animals
(1) For relevant biological veterinary medicinal products (for example, substances with antimicrobial and antiparasitic activity), information on current resistance (if applicable) and on the potential emergence of resistance of clinical relevance for the claimed indication in the target animal species shall be provided. Where possible, information on the resistance mechanism(s), the molecular genetic basis of resistance, and the rate of transfer of resistance determinants shall be presented. Whenever relevant, information on co-resistance and cross-resistance shall be presented. Measures to limit resistance development in organisms of clinical relevance for the intended use of the veterinary medicinal product shall be proposed by the applicant. (2) Resistance relevant for risks to humans shall be addressed in Part 3 of the dossier. Where relevant, cross-reference shall be made to data set out in Part 3 of the dossier. IIIa.4A3. Dose determination and confirmation
(1) Appropriate data shall be provided to justify the proposed dose, dosing interval, duration of treatment and any re-treatment interval. (2) For studies conducted under field conditions, relevant information shall be provided as outlined under clinical studies. IIIa.4A4.
For generic veterinary medicinal products the detailed and critical summaries on safety and efficacy shall particularly focus on the following elements: —
the grounds for claiming essential similarity,
—
a summary of impurities present in batches of the active substance(s) as well as those of the finished medicinal product (and where relevant decomposition products arising during storage) as proposed for use in the product to be marketed together with an evaluation of these impurities,
—
an evaluation of the bio-equivalence studies or a justification as to why studies were not performed with reference to established guidance,
—
if applicable, additional data in order to demonstrate the equivalence of safety and efficacy properties of different salts, esters or derivatives of an authorised active substance shall be provided by the applicant; those data shall include evidence that there is no change in the pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic properties of the therapeutic moiety and/or in toxicity, which could influence the safety/efficacy profile. Every claim in the summary of product characteristics not known from or inferred from the properties of the medicinal product and/or its therapeutic group should be discussed in the non-clinical/clinical overviews/summaries and substantiated by published literature and/or additional studies. For generic veterinary medicinal products intended to be administered by intramuscular, subcutaneous or transdermal routes, the following additional data shall be provided: —
evidence to demonstrate equivalent or differing depletion of residues from the administration site, which may be substantiated by appropriate residue depletion studies,
—
evidence to demonstrate target animal tolerance at the administration site, which may be substantiated by appropriate target animal tolerance studies. 2. Similar biological veterinary medicinal products
In accordance with Article 13(4), where a biological veterinary medicinal product which is similar to a reference biological veterinary medicinal product does not meet the conditions in the definition of generic medicinal product, information to be supplied shall not be limited to Parts 1 and 2 (pharmaceutical, chemical and biological data), supplemented with bio-equivalence and bioavailability data. In such cases, additional data shall be provided, in particular on the safety and efficacy of the product. —
The type and amount of additional data (i.e. toxicological and other safety studies and appropriate clinical studies) shall be determined on a case-by-case basis in accordance with relevant scientific guidelines. —
Due to the diversity of biological veterinary medicinal products, the competent authority shall determine the necessary studies foreseen in Parts 3 and 4, taking into account the specific characteristic of each individual biological veterinary medicinal product. The general principles to be applied shall be addressed in guideline which shall be adopted by the Agency, taking into account the characteristics of the concerned biological veterinary medicinal product. If the reference biological veterinary medicinal product has more than one indication, the efficacy and safety of the biological veterinary medicinal product claimed to be similar shall be justified or, if necessary, demonstrated separately for each of the claimed indications. 3. Well-established veterinary use
For veterinary medicinal products the active substance(s) of which has/have been in 'well-established veterinary use' as referred to in Article 13a, with recognised efficacy and an acceptable level of safety, the following specific rules shall apply. The applicant shall submit Parts 1 and 2 as described in Title I of this Annex. For Parts 3 and 4, a detailed scientific bibliography shall address all aspects of the safety and efficacy. The following specific rules shall apply in order to demonstrate the well-established veterinary use: 3.1. The following factors shall be taken into account in order to establish a well-established veterinary medicinal use of constituents of veterinary medicinal products: (a) the time over which an active substance has been used; (b) quantitative aspects of the use of the active substance; (c) the degree of scientific interest in the use of the active substance (reflected in the published scientific literature); (d) the coherence of scientific assessments. Different periods of time may be necessary for establishing well-established use of different substances. In any case, however, the period of time required for establishing a well-established veterinary use of a constituent of a medicinal product shall not be less than 10 years from the first systematic and documented use of that substance as a veterinary medicinal product in the Community. 3.2. The documentation submitted by the applicant shall cover all aspects of the safety and/or efficacy assessment of the product for the proposed indication in the target species using the proposed route of administration and dosage regimen. It must include or refer to a review of the relevant literature, taking into account pre- and post-marketing studies and published scientific literature concerning experience in the form of epidemiological studies and in particular of comparative epidemiological studies. All documentation, both favourable and unfavourable, shall be communicated. With respect to the provisions on well-established veterinary use, it is in particular necessary to clarify that bibliographic reference to other sources of evidence (post-marketing studies, epidemiological studies etc.) and not just data related to tests and trials may serve as a valid proof of safety and efficacy of a product if an application explains and justifies the use of these sources of information satisfactorily. 3.3. Particular attention must be paid to any missing information and justification must be given as to why demonstration of an acceptable level of safety and/or efficacy can be supported although some studies are lacking. 3.4. The detailed and critical summaries regarding safety and efficacy must explain the relevance of any data submitted which concern a product different from the product intended for marketing. A judgement must be made whether or not the product studied can be considered as similar to the product, for which application for a marketing authorisation has been made in spite of the existing differences. 3.5. Post-marketing experience with other products containing the same constituents is of particular importance and applicants shall put a special emphasis on this issue. 4. Combination veterinary medicinal products
For applications based on Article 13b, a dossier containing Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall be provided for the combination veterinary medicinal product. It shall not be necessary to provide studies on the safety and efficacy of each active substance. It shall nevertheless be possible to include information on the individual substances in the application for a fixed combination. The submission of data on each individual active substance, in conjunction with the required user safety studies, residues depletion studies and clinical studies on the fixed combination product, may be considered a suitable justification for omitting data on the combination product, based on animal welfare grounds and unnecessary testing on animals, unless there is suspected interaction leading to added toxicity. Where applicable, information regarding the manufacturing sites and the safety evaluation of adventitious agents shall be provided. 5. Informed consent applications
Applications based on Article 13c shall contain the data described in Part 1 of Title 1 of this Annex, provided that the marketing authorisation holder for the original veterinary medicinal product has given the applicant his consent to refer to the content of Parts 2, 3 and 4 of the dossier of that product.
(18) 'pre-clinical study' means a study not covered by the definition of clinical trial which aims to investigate the safety or efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product for the purpose of obtaining a marketing authorisation or a change thereof;
(19) 'benefit-risk balance' means an evaluation of the positive effects of the veterinary medicinal product in relation to the following risks relating to the use of that product: (a) any risk relating to the quality, safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal products as regards animal or human health; (b) any risk of undesirable effects on the environment; (c) any risk relating to the development of resistance;
5. Informed consent applications
Applications based on Article 13c shall contain the data described in Part 1 of Title 1 of this Annex, provided that the marketing authorisation holder for the original veterinary medicinal product has given the applicant his consent to refer to the content of Parts 2, 3 and 4 of the dossier of that product.

In this case, there is no need to submit quality, safety and efficacy detailed and critical summaries. 6. Documentation for applications in exceptional circumstances
A marketing authorisation may be granted subject to certain specific obligations requiring the applicant to introduce specific procedures, in particular concerning the safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal product, when, as provided for in Article 26(3) of this Directive, the applicant can show that he is unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and safety under normal conditions of use. The identification of essential requirements for all applications mentioned in this section should be subject to guidelines which shall be adopted by the Agency. 7. Mixed marketing authorisation applications
Mixed marketing authorisation applications are applications where Part(s) 3 and/or 4 of the dossier consist of safety and efficacy studies carried out by the applicant as well as bibliographical references. All other part(s) are in accordance with the structure described in Part 1 of Title I of this Annex. The competent authority shall accept the proposed format presented by the applicant on a case-by-case basis. TITLE IV
Requirements for marketing authorisation applications for particular veterinary medicinal products
This part lays down specific requirements for identified veterinary medicinal products related to the nature of the active substances contained therein. 1. Immunological veterinary medicinal products
A. VACCINE ANTIGEN MASTER FILE
For particular immunological veterinary medicinal products and by derogation from the provisions of Title II, Part 2 Section C on active substances, the concept of a Vaccine Antigen Master File is introduced. For the purpose of this Annex, a Vaccine Antigen Master File means a stand-alone part of the marketing authorisation application dossier for a vaccine, which contains all relevant information on quality concerning each of the active substances, which are part of this veterinary medicinal product. The stand-alone part may be common to one or more monovalent and/or combined vaccines presented by the same applicant or marketing authorisation holder. Scientific guidelines for the submission and evaluation of a vaccine antigen master file shall be adopted by the Agency. The procedure for the submission and evaluation of a vaccine antigen master file shall follow the guidance published by the Commission in The rules governing medicinal products in the European Union, Volume 6B, Notice to Applicants. B. MULTI-STRAIN DOSSIER
For certain immunological veterinary medicinal products (foot-and-mouth disease, avian influenza and bluetongue) and by derogation from the provisions of Title II, Part 2 Section C on active substances the concept of the use of a multi-strain dossier is introduced. A multi-strain dossier means a single dossier containing the relevant data for a unique and thorough scientific assessment of the different options of strains/combinations of strains permitting the authorisation of vaccines against antigenically variable viruses. Scientific guidelines for the submission and evaluation of multi-strain dossiers shall be adopted by the Agency. The procedure for the submission and evaluation of multi-strain dossiers shall follow the guidance published by the Commission in The rules governing medicinal products in the European Union, Volume 6B, Notice to Applicants. 2. Homeopathic veterinary medicinal products
This section sets out specific provisions on the application of Title I, Parts 2 and 3 to homeopathic veterinary medicinal products as defined in Article 1(8). PART 2
The provisions of Part 2 shall apply to the documents submitted in accordance with Article 18 in the simplified registration of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 17(1) as well as to the documents for authorisation of other homeopathic veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 19(1) with the following modifications. (a) Terminology
The Latin name of the homeopathic stock described in the marketing authorisation application dossier shall be in accordance with the Latin title of the European Pharmacopoeia or, in absence thereof, of an official pharmacopoeia of a Member State. Where relevant the traditional name(s) used in each Member State shall be provided. (b) Control of starting materials
The particulars and documents on the starting materials, i.e. all of the materials used including raw materials and intermediates up to the final dilution to be incorporated into the finished homeopathic veterinary medicinal product, accompanying the application shall be supplemented by additional data on the homeopathic stock. The general quality requirements shall apply to all of the starting and raw materials as well as intermediate steps of the manufacturing process up to the final dilution to be incorporated into the finished homeopathic product. Where a toxic component is present, this should be controlled if possible in the final dilution. However, if this is not possible because of the high dilution, the toxic component shall normally be controlled at an earlier stage. Every step of the manufacturing process from the starting materials up to the final dilution to be incorporated into the finished product must be fully described. In case dilutions are involved, these dilution steps shall be done in accordance with the homeopathic manufacturing methods laid down in the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia or, in absence thereof, in an official pharmacopoeia of a Member State. (c) Control tests on the finished medicinal product
The general quality requirements shall apply to the homeopathic finished veterinary medicinal products. Any exception shall be duly justified by the applicant. Identification and assay of all the toxicologically relevant constituents shall be carried out. If it can be justified that identification and/or an assay on all the toxicologically relevant constituents is not possible e.g. due to their dilution in the finished medicinal product the quality shall be demonstrated by complete validation of the manufacturing and dilution process. (d) Stability tests
The stability of the finished product shall be demonstrated. Stability data from the homeopathic stocks are generally transferable to dilutions/potentisations obtained thereof. If no identification or assay of the active substance is possible due to the degree of dilution, stability data of the pharmaceutical form may be considered. PART 3
The provisions of Part 3 shall apply to the simplified registration of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 17(1) of this Directive with the following specification, without prejudice to the provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 2377/90 for substances included in the homeopathic stocks intended for administration to food-producing animal species. Any missing information must be justified, e.g. justification must be given why demonstration of an acceptable level of safety can be supported although some studies are lacking. (*1) This Annex will be amended by the Commission in accordance with Articles 146 and 153. All references to Articles or to 'this Directive' in this Annex, unless otherwise specified, are to be understood as references to Directive 2001/82/EC. (1) OJ L 228, 17.8.1991, p. 70. (2) OJ L 50, 20.2.2004, p. 44. (3) OJ L 50, 20.2.2004, p. 28. (4) OJ L 358, 18.12.1986, p. 1. (5) OJ L 159, 27.6.2003, p. 1. (6) OJ L 159, 27.6.2003, p. 24. (7) OJ L 106, 17.4.2001, p. 1. (8) OJ L 136, 30.4.2004, p. 1. (9) OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 67.
(19) 'benefit-risk balance' means an evaluation of the positive effects of the veterinary medicinal product in relation to the following risks relating to the use of that product: (a) any risk relating to the quality, safety and efficacy of the veterinary medicinal products as regards animal or human health; (b) any risk of undesirable effects on the environment; (c) any risk relating to the development of resistance;
IIIa.4A4. Tolerance in the target animal species
(1) The local and systemic tolerance of the veterinary medicinal product shall be investigated in the target animal species. The purpose of target animal safety studies is to characterise signs of intolerance and to establish an adequate margin of safety using the recommended route(s) of administration. This may be achieved by increasing the dose and/or the duration of treatment. (2) The study report(s) shall contain details of all expected pharmacological effects and all adverse reactions. The conduct of target animal safety studies shall be in accordance with VICH and relevant guidance published by the Agency. Other pre-clinical studies and clinical studies, along with relevant information from the published literature may also provide information on safety in the target species. IIIa.4B. Clinical trials
IIIa.4B1. General principles
(1) Clinical trials shall be designed, carried out and reported taking into account VICH and relevant guidance published by the Agency. Data stemming from clinical trials conducted outside the Union may be taken into consideration for the assessment of an application for a marketing authorisation only, if the data are sufficiently representative of the Union situation. (2) Experimental data such as exploratory/pilot trials, or results from non-experimental approaches shall be confirmed by data obtained under normal field conditions, unless otherwise justified. (3) The purpose of clinical trials is to examine under field conditions the target animal safety and efficacy of a veterinary medicinal product under normal conditions of animal husbandry and/or as part of good veterinary practice. They shall demonstrate the effect of the veterinary medicinal product after administration to the intended target species using the proposed dosage regimen and the proposed route(s) of administration. The trial design shall aim to support the indications and take into account any contra-indications according to species, age, breed and sex, directions for use of the veterinary medicinal product as well as any adverse reactions which it may have. (4) All veterinary clinical trials shall be conducted in accordance with a detailed trial protocol. For formulations intended for use in veterinary clinical trials in the Union, the words 'for veterinary clinical trial use only' shall appear prominently and indelibly on the labelling. (5) Unless otherwise justified, clinical trials shall be carried out with control animals (controlled clinical trials). The efficacy results obtained with the new product shall be compared with those from the target animal species that have received a veterinary medicinal product authorised in the Union that has demonstrated an acceptable level of efficacy and been approved for the proposed indication(s) for use in the same target animal species, or a placebo or no treatment. All the results obtained, whether positive or negative, shall be reported. (6) Established statistical principles in accordance with the relevant guidance published by the Agency shall be used in protocol design, analysis and evaluation of clinical trials, unless otherwise justified. IIIa.4B2. Documentation
The dossier on efficacy shall include all pre-clinical and clinical documentation, whether favourable or unfavourable to the veterinary medicinal products, in order to enable an objective overall assessment of the benefit/risk balance of the product.IIIa.4B2.1. Results of pre-clinical studies
Wherever possible, particulars shall be given of the results of: (a) 
tests demonstrating pharmacological activity; (b) 
tests demonstrating the pharmacodynamic mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effect; (c) 
tests demonstrating the main pharmacokinetic profile; (d) 
tests demonstrating target animal safety; (e) 
tests to determine and confirm the dose (including dose interval, duration of treatment and any re-treatment interval); (f) 
tests and investigations on resistance, if applicable. In the case where unexpected results occur during the course of the tests, those results shall be sufficiently detailed. Additionally, the following particulars shall be provided in all pre-clinical study reports. (a) 
a summary; (b) 
a study protocol; (c) 
a detailed description of the objectives, design and conduct to include methods, apparatus and materials used, details such as species, age, weight, sex, number, breed or strain of animals, identification of animals, dose, route and schedule of administration; (d) 
a statistical analysis of the results; (e) 
an objective discussion of the results obtained, leading to conclusions on the efficacy and target animal safety of the veterinary medicinal product. Omission of any of those data shall be justified.IIIa.4B2.2. Results of clinical trials
All the particulars shall be supplied by each of the investigators on individual record sheets in the case of individual treatment and collective record sheets in the case of collective treatment.The marketing authorisation holder shall make all necessary arrangements to ensure that the original documents, which formed the basis of the data supplied, are kept for at least five years after the veterinary medicinal product is no longer authorised.In respect of each clinical trial, the clinical observations shall be summarised in a synopsis of the trials and the results thereof, indicating in particular: (a) 
the number of control and test animals treated either individually or collectively, with a breakdown according to species, breed or strain, age and sex; (b) 
the number of animals withdrawn prematurely from the trials and the reasons for such withdrawal; (c) 
in the case of control animals, whether they have: (i) 
received no treatment; (ii) 
received a placebo; (iii) 
received another veterinary medicinal product authorised in the Union that has demonstrated an acceptable level of efficacy and been approved for the proposed indication(s) for use in the same target animal species; or
(iv) 
received the same active substance under investigation in a different formulation or by a different route; (d) 
the frequency of observed adverse reactions; (e) 
observations as to the effect on animal performance, if appropriate; (f) 
details concerning test animals which may be at increased risk owing to their age, their mode of rearing or feeding, or the purpose for which they are intended, or animals the physiological or pathological condition of which requires special consideration; (g) 
a statistical evaluation of the results. The main investigator shall draw general conclusions on the efficacy and target animal safety of the veterinary medicinal product under the proposed conditions of use, and in particular any information relating to indications and contraindications, dosage and average duration of treatment and, where appropriate, any interactions observed with other veterinary medicinal products or feed additives as well as any special precautions to be taken during treatment and the clinical signs of overdoseage, when observed.SECTION IIIb
REQUIREMENTS FOR IMMUNOLOGICAL VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
The following requirements shall apply to immunological veterinary medicinal products as defined in Article 4(5), except where otherwise set out in Section IV.IIIb.1. Part 1: Summary of the dossier
Please refer to Section I.IIIb.2. Part 2: Quality documentation (physicochemical, biological and microbiological information)
IIIb.2.A. Product description
IIIb.2A1. Qualitative and quantitative composition
(1) Qualitative composition of all the constituents of the immunological veterinary medicinal product shall mean the designation or description of: (a) 
the active substance(s); (b) 
the constituents of the adjuvants; (c) 
the constituent(s) of other excipients, whatever their nature or the quantity used, including preservatives, stabilisers, colouring matter, flavouring and aromatic substances, markers, etc.
(20) 'common name' means the international non-proprietary name recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) for a substance or, if one does not exist, the name generally used;
(c) 
the constituent(s) of other excipients, whatever their nature or the quantity used, including preservatives, stabilisers, colouring matter, flavouring and aromatic substances, markers, etc.

(d) 
accompanying reconstitution solvents. (2) Those data in point (1) shall be supplemented by any relevant data concerning the immediate packaging and if relevant the outer packaging and, where appropriate, its manner of closure, together with details of devices with which the immunological veterinary medicinal product will be used or administered and which will be delivered with the medicinal product. If the device is not delivered together with the immunological veterinary medicinal product, relevant information about the device shall be provided, where necessary for the assessment of the product. (3) The usual terminology to be used in describing the constituents of immunological veterinary medicinal products, notwithstanding the application of the other provisions of Article 8, means: (a) 
in respect of substances which appear in the European Pharmacopoeia or, failing this, in the pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States, the main title of the monograph in question, which will be obligatory for all such substances, with reference to the pharmacopoeia concerned; (b) 
in respect of other substances, the INN recommended by the WHO, which may be accompanied by another non-proprietary name or, failing these, the exact scientific designation; substances not having an international non-proprietary name or an exact scientific designation shall be described by a statement of how and from what they were prepared, supplemented, where appropriate, by any other relevant details; (c) 
in respect of colouring matter designation by the 'E' code assigned to them in Directive 2009/35/EC. (4) In order to give the quantitative composition of the active substances of an immunological veterinary medicinal product, it is necessary to specify whenever possible the number of organisms, the specific protein content, the mass, the number of International Units (IU) or units of biological activity, either per dosage-unit or volume, and with regard to the adjuvant and to the constituents of the excipients, the mass or the volume of each of them, with due allowance for the details provided in Part IIb.2B. (5) Where an international unit of biological activity has been defined, this shall be used. (6) The units of biological activity for which no published data exist shall be expressed in such a way as to provide unambiguous information on the activity of the ingredients, for example, by stating the amount as determined by titration or potency testing of the final product. (7) The composition shall be given in terms of minimum quantities and, if appropriate, with maximum quantities. IIIb.2A2. Product development
(1) Explanation shall be provided with regard to, but may not be limited to: (a) 
the choice of composition and the choice of the constituents, in particular relative to their intended functions and their respective concentrations; (b) 
the inclusion of a preservative in the composition shall be justified; (c) 
the immediate packaging and the suitability of the container and its closure system used for the storage and use of the finished product. A study of the interaction between finished product and the primary packaging shall be submitted wherever the risk of such interaction is regarded as possible, especially where injectable preparations are concerned; (d) 
the possible further packaging, outer packaging if relevant; (e) 
the proposed pack sizes related to the proposed route of administration, the posology and the target species; (f) 
any overage(s) in the formulation to guarantee minimum potency/antigen content at end of shelf life with justification; (g) 
the selection of the manufacturing process of the active substance and the finished product; (h) 
differences between the manufacturing process(es) used to produce batches used in clinical trials and the process described in the application for marketing authorisation shall be discussed; (i) 
when an accompanying test is recommended to be used with the finished product (e.g. diagnostic test), relevant information about the test shall be provided. (2) This explanation shall be supported by scientific data on product development. IIIb.2B. Description of the manufacturing method
(1) The description of the manufacturing method accompanying the application for marketing authorisation pursuant to Article 8 shall be drafted in such a way as to give an adequate description of the nature of the operations employed, including the identification of the key stages in the production process. (2) The description of the manufacturing process shall include at least: (a) 
the various stages of manufacture (including production of the antigen and purification procedures) accompanied by a process flow chart so that an assessment may be made of the reproducibility of the manufacturing procedure and of the risks of adverse effects on the finished products, such as microbiological contamination; (b) 
in the case of continuous manufacture, full details concerning precautions taken to ensure the homogeneity and consistency of each batch of the finished product. Information on how a batch is defined and on the proposed commercial batch size(s) shall be provided; (c) 
listing of all the substances at the appropriate steps where they are used, including those which cannot be recovered in the course of manufacturing; (d) 
the details of the blending, with the quantitative particulars of all the substances used, including an example for a representative production batch; (e) 
list of in-process controls including the stage of manufacture at which they are conducted; (f) 
for sterile products, where non-pharmacopoeial sterilisation conditions are used, details of the sterilisation processes and/or aseptic procedures used. (3) Validation of all the methods of control used in the manufacturing process shall be described, documented and the results provided, unless otherwise justified. The validation of key stages in the production process shall be demonstrated and the validation of the production process as a whole shall be demonstrated with provision of results of three consecutive batches produced using the method described. IIIb.2C. Production and control of starting materials
(1) For the purposes of this Part, 'starting materials' means all components used in the production of the immunological veterinary medicinal product. (2) Commercially available ready-to-use adjuvant systems designated by a brand name as well as culture media used for production of the active substance consisting of several components shall be regarded as one starting material. Nevertheless, the qualitative and quantitative composition shall be presented insofar as the authorities consider that this information is relevant to the quality of the finished product and any risks that might be posed. (3) If materials of animal origin are used for preparation of those culture media or adjuvant systems, the animal species and the tissue used have to be included and compliance with the relevant monographs including general monographs and general chapters of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be demonstrated. (4) The applicant shall supply documentation to demonstrate that the starting materials, including seed materials, cell seeds, batches of serum and other material originating from animal species relevant for the transmission of TSE and the manufacturing of the veterinary medicinal product is in compliance with the requirements of the Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products, as well as with the requirements of the corresponding monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia.
(9) OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 67. (10) OJ L 11, 14.1.1978, p. 18. (11) OJ L 226, 22.9.1995, p. 1. (12) OJ C 24, 28.1.2004, p. 6. (13) OJ L 224, 2.4.1990, p. 1. (14) OJ L 325, 12.12.2003, p. 31.
(20) 'common name' means the international non-proprietary name recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) for a substance or, if one does not exist, the name generally used;
(21) 'name of the veterinary medicinal product' means either an invented name not liable to confusion with the common name, or a common or scientific name accompanied by a trademark or the name of the marketing authorisation holder;
(21) 'name of the veterinary medicinal product' means either an invented name not liable to confusion with the common name, or a common or scientific name accompanied by a trademark or the name of the marketing authorisation holder;
(4) The applicant shall supply documentation to demonstrate that the starting materials, including seed materials, cell seeds, batches of serum and other material originating from animal species relevant for the transmission of TSE and the manufacturing of the veterinary medicinal product is in compliance with the requirements of the Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human and veterinary medicinal products, as well as with the requirements of the corresponding monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia. Certificates of Suitability issued by the European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines and HealthCare, with reference to the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia, may be used to demonstrate compliance. (5) The dossier shall include the specifications, information on the tests to be conducted for the quality control of all batches of starting materials and results for a batch for all components used and shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements of this Part. (6) Certificates of analysis shall be presented for the starting materials in order to demonstrate compliance with the defined specification. (7) Colouring matter shall, in all cases, satisfy the requirements of Directive 2009/35/EC. (8) The use of antibiotics during production and the inclusion of preservatives in the composition of the finished product shall be justified and in compliance with the European Pharmacopoeia. (9) For novel excipients, that is to say excipient(s) used for the first time in the Union in a veterinary medicinal product or by a new route of administration, details of manufacture, characterisation, and controls, with cross references to supporting safety data, both clinical and non- clinical, shall be provided. For colouring matters the declarations of compliance as mentioned under Part II.2C2, points (3) and (4) shall be considered sufficient. IIIb.2C1. Starting materials listed in pharmacopoeias
(1) The monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be applicable to all starting materials appearing in it, unless proper justification is provided. (2) In respect of other substances, each Member State may require observance of its own national pharmacopoeia with regard to products manufactured in its territory. (3) The description of the analytical methods may be replaced by a detailed reference to the pharmacopoeia in question. (4) The routine tests carried out on each batch of starting materials shall be as stated in the application for marketing authorisation. If tests other than those mentioned in the pharmacopoeia are used, proof shall be supplied that the starting materials meet the quality requirements of that pharmacopoeia. (5) In cases where a specification or other provisions contained in a monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia or in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State might be insufficient to ensure the quality of the substance, the competent authorities may request more appropriate specifications from the applicant for marketing authorisation. The alleged insufficiency shall be reported to the authorities responsible for the pharmacopoeia in question. IIIb.2C2. Starting materials not listed in a pharmacopoeia
IIIb.2C2.1. Starting materials of biological origin
(1) The description shall be given in the form of a monograph. (2) Vaccine production shall be based on a seed lot system and on established cell seeds, whenever possible. For the production of immunological veterinary medicinal products consisting of serum, the origin, general health and immunological status of the producing animals shall be indicated and defined pools of source materials shall be used. (3) The origin, including geographical region, and history of starting materials shall be described and documented. (4) For genetically engineered starting materials this information shall include details such as the description of the starting cells or strains, the construction of the expression vector (name, origin, function of the replicon, promoter enhancer and other regulator elements), control of the sequence of DNA or RNA effectively inserted, oligonucleotide sequences of plasmid vector in cells, plasmid used for cotransfection, added or deleted genes, biological properties of the final construct and the genes expressed, copy number and genetic stability. (5) In the case of veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms (GMO), the quality part of the application shall also be accompanied by the documents required in accordance with Directive 2001/18/EC. (6) Seed materials, including cell seeds and raw serum for anti-serum production shall be tested for identity and the absence of extraneous agents shall be demonstrated according to the European Pharmacopoeia. (7) Information shall be provided on all substances of biological origin used at any stage in the manufacturing procedure. The information shall include: (a) 
details of the source of the materials; (b) 
details of any processing, purification and inactivation applied, with data on the validation of those processes and controls during production; (c) 
details of any tests for contamination carried out on each batch of the substance. (8) If the presence of extraneous agents is detected or suspected, the corresponding material shall be discarded or processed to reduce the risk of presence with a validated treatment. If after treatment presence is detected or suspected, the corresponding material shall be used only when further processing of the product ensures their elimination and/or inactivation; elimination and/or inactivation of such extraneous agents shall be demonstrated. (9) When cell seeds are used, the cell characteristics shall be shown to have remained unchanged up to the highest passage level used for the production. (10) For live attenuated vaccines, confirmation of the stability of the attenuation characteristics of the seed shall be provided. Unless a specific characteristic is associated with the attenuation (e.g. genetic marker, thermal stability), this is typically achieved through absence of reversion to virulence in the target animal species. (11) When required, samples of the biological starting material or reagents used in the testing procedures shall be provided to enable the competent authority to arrange for check tests to be carried out. IIIb.2C2.2. Starting materials of non-biological origin
The description shall be given in the form of a monograph under the following headings: (a) 
the name of the starting material meeting the requirements of point (3) of Part IIIb.2A1. shall be supplemented by any trade or scientific synonyms; (b) 
the description of the starting material, set down in a form similar to that used in a descriptive item in the European Pharmacopoeia; (c) 
the function of the starting material; (d) 
methods of identification; (e) 
any special precautions which may be necessary during storage of the starting material and, if necessary, its storage life shall be given. IIIb.2D. Control tests during the manufacturing process
(1) The dossier shall include particulars relating to the control tests, which are carried out on intermediate stages of manufacture with a view to verifying the consistency of the manufacturing process and the final product. Specifications shall be set for each control test and the analytical methods shall be described. Validation of the control tests for parameters considered critical to the manufacturing process shall be provided unless otherwise justified. (2) For inactivated or detoxified vaccines, inactivation or detoxification shall be tested during each production run as soon as possible after the end of the inactivation or detoxification process and after neutralisation if this occurs, but before the next step of production.
(22) 'strength' means the content of active substances in a veterinary medicinal product, expressed quantitatively per dosage unit, per unit of volume or per unit of weight according to the pharmaceutical form;
(22) 'strength' means the content of active substances in a veterinary medicinal product, expressed quantitatively per dosage unit, per unit of volume or per unit of weight according to the pharmaceutical form;
(2) For inactivated or detoxified vaccines, inactivation or detoxification shall be tested during each production run as soon as possible after the end of the inactivation or detoxification process and after neutralisation if this occurs, but before the next step of production. (3) In accordance with the provisions of Directive 2010/63/EU and the European Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals Used for Experimental and Other Scientific Purposes, tests shall be carried out in such a way as to use the minimum number of animals and to cause the least pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm. If available, an alternative in vitro test shall be used when this leads to replacement or reduction of animal use or reduction of suffering. IIIb.2E. Control tests on the finished product
(1) For all tests, the description of the techniques for analysing the finished product shall be set out in sufficient detail for a quality assessment. (2) Where appropriate monographs exist, if test procedures and limits other than those mentioned in the monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia, or failing this, in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, are used, proof shall be supplied that the finished product would, if tested in accordance with those monographs, meet the quality requirements of that pharmacopoeia for the pharmaceutical form concerned. The application for marketing authorisation shall list those tests, which are carried out on representative samples of each batch of finished product. The frequency of the tests carried out on the final bulk vaccine instead of on the batch or batches prepared from it, shall be stated. Release limits shall be indicated and justified. Validation of the control tests carried out on the finished product shall be provided. (3) Information regarding the establishment and replacement of reference material shall be provided. If more than one reference standard has been used, a qualification history shall be provided describing how the relationship between the different standards was maintained. (4) Where available, chemical and biological reference material of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be used. If other reference preparations and standards are used, they shall be identified and described in detail. (5) In accordance with the provisions of Directive 2010/63/EU and the European Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals Used for Experimental and Other Scientific Purposes, tests shall be carried out in such a way as to use the minimum number of animals and to cause the least pain, suffering, distress or lasting harm. If available, an alternative in vitro test shall be used when this leads to replacement or reduction of animal use or reduction of suffering. (6) General characteristics of the finished product
The tests of general characteristics shall, wherever applicable, relate to the appearance and to physical or chemical tests, such as, conductivity, pH, viscosity, etc. For each of those characteristics, specifications, with appropriate acceptance limits, shall be established by the applicant. (7) Identification of active substance(s) Where necessary, a specific test for identification shall be carried out. When appropriate, the identification test may be combined with the batch titre or potency test. (8) Batch titre or potency
A quantification of the active substance shall be carried out on each batch to show that each batch will contain the appropriate potency or titre to ensure its safety and efficacy. (9) Identification and assay of adjuvants
The quantity and nature of the adjuvant and its components shall be verified on the finished product, unless otherwise justified. (10) Identification and assay of excipient components
Insofar as is necessary, the excipient(s) shall be subject at least to identification tests.An upper and lower limit test shall be obligatory in respect of preserving agents. An upper limit test for any other excipient components liable to give rise to an adverse reaction shall be obligatory. (11) Sterility and purity test
Freedom from extraneous agents (bacteria, mycoplasma, fungi and bacterial endotoxin when relevant) shall be demonstrated for parenterally administered products in compliance with the European Pharmacopoeia. For non-liquid, non-parenterally administered products, where adequately justified, compliance to a maximum bioburden limit instead of sterility test may be acceptable.Appropriate tests to demonstrate the absence of contamination by extraneous agents or other substances, shall be carried out according to the nature of the immunological veterinary medicinal product, the method and the conditions of manufacture. A risk-based approach to demonstrate the absence of extraneous agents as described in the European Pharmacopoeia shall be used. (12) Residual humidity
Each batch of lyophilised product shall be tested for residual humidity. (13) Filling volume
Appropriate tests to demonstrate the correct filling volume shall be carried out.IIIb.2F. Batch-to-batch consistency
In order to ensure that quality of the product is consistent from batch to batch and to demonstrate conformity with specifications a full protocol of three consecutive batches representative of the routine production giving the results for all tests performed during production and on the finished product shall be provided. Consistency data obtained from combined products may be used for derivative products containing one or more of the same components.IIIb.2G. Stability tests
(1) Stability tests cover stability of the active substance and the finished product, including solvent(s), if relevant. (2) A description shall be given of the tests undertaken to support the shelf life, the recommended storage conditions and the specifications at the end of the shelf life proposed for the active substance and the finished product. Those tests shall always be real-time studies. If intermediate products obtained at various stages of the manufacturing process are stored, the intended conditions and duration of storage shall be adequately justified on the basis of the stability data available. (3) Stability tests for the finished product shall be carried out on not fewer than three representative batches produced according to the described production process and on products stored in the final container(s); those tests include biological and physicochemical stability tests carried out at regular intervals, for the finished product until 3 months beyond the claimed end of the shelf life. (4) The conclusions shall contain the results of analyses, justifying the proposed shelf life under all proposed storage conditions. The results obtained during the stability study shall be taken into account when defining appropriate formulation and release specifications to ensure the conformity of the product with the claimed shelf life
(5) In the case of products administered in feed, information shall also be given as necessary on the shelf life of the product, at the different stages of mixing, when mixed in accordance with the recommended instructions. (6) Where a finished product requires reconstitution prior to administration or is administered in drinking water, details of the proposed shelf life are required for the product reconstituted as recommended. Data in support of the proposed shelf life for the reconstituted product shall be submitted. (7) Stability data obtained from combined products may be used where adequately justified for derivative products containing one or more of the same components. (8) In the case of multi-dose containers, where relevant, stability data shall be presented to justify a shelf life for the product after it has been broached or opened for the first time and an in-use shelf-life specification shall be defined. (9) The efficacy of any preservative system shall be demonstrated.
(23) 'competent authority' means an authority designated by a Member State in accordance with Article 137;
(9) The efficacy of any preservative system shall be demonstrated. (10) Information on the efficacy of preservatives in other similar immunological veterinary medicinal products from the same manufacturer may be sufficient. (11) If active substances are stored, the intended conditions and duration of storage shall be defined on the basis of stability data. Those data may be obtained either through testing of the active substances themselves or through appropriate testing of the finished product. IIIb.2H. Other information
Information relating to the quality of the immunological veterinary medicinal product not covered by this Section may be included in the dossier.IIIb.3. Part 3: Safety documentation (safety and residues
tests)
IIIb.3A. General requirements
(1) The safety documentation shall be adequate for the assessment of: (a) 
the safety of the immunological veterinary medicinal product when administered to the target species and any undesirable effects which may occur under the proposed conditions of use; those undesirable effects shall be evaluated in relation to potential benefits of the product; (b) 
the potential harmful effects to man of residues of the veterinary medicinal product or substance in foodstuffs obtained from treated animals; (c) 
the potential risks which may result from the exposure of human beings to the veterinary medicinal product, for example, during its administration to the animal; (d) 
the potential risks to the environment resulting from the use of the veterinary medicinal product. ▼M2
(2) Pre-clinical safety studies shall be carried out in compliance with GLP requirements. Non-GLP studies may be accepted for non-target species studies as well as studies evaluating immunological, biological or genetic properties of the vaccine strains, under adequately controlled conditions. Other deviations shall be justified. ▼M1
(3) All safety trials shall be conducted in accordance with a fully considered detailed protocol, which shall be recorded in writing prior to commencement of the trial. The welfare of the trial animals shall be subject to veterinary supervision and shall be taken fully into consideration during the elaboration of any trial protocol and throughout the conduct of the trial. (4) Pre-established systematic written procedures for the organisation, conduct, data collection, documentation and verification of safety trials shall be required. (5) Clinical trials (field trials) shall be conducted in compliance with established principles of good clinical practice (GCP). Deviations shall be justified. (6) The safety studies shall be in line with the relevant European Pharmacopeia requirements. Deviations shall be justified. (7) The safety studies shall be carried out in the target species. The dose to be used shall be the quantity of the product to be recommended for use and the batch used for safety testing shall be taken from a batch or batches produced according to the manufacturing process described in Part 2 of the application. (8) For laboratory tests described in Sections B.1, B.2 and B.3, the dose of the veterinary medicinal product shall contain the maximum titre, antigen content or potency. If necessary, the concentration of the antigen may be adjusted to achieve the required dose. (9) The safety of an immunological veterinary medicinal product shall be demonstrated for each category of target animal species in which its use is recommended, by each recommended route and method of administration and using the proposed schedule of administration. A worst-case scenario for route and method of administration may be used if scientifically justified. (10) In the case of immunological veterinary medicinal products consisting of live organisms, special requirements are included under B.6. 
(11) The particulars and documents which shall accompany the application for marketing authorisation shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements for pre-clinical studies and clinical trials described in Parts IIIb.4B, point (4), and IIIb.4C, point (3).. IIIb.3B. Pre-clinical studies
(1) Safety of the administration of one dose
The immunological veterinary medicinal product shall be administered at the recommended dose and by each recommended route and method of administration to animals of each species and each relevant category (e.g. minimum age, pregnant animals, as appropriate) in which it is intended for use.The animals shall be observed and examined daily for signs of systemic and local reactions until reactions may no longer be expected, but in all cases, at least 14 days after administration. Where appropriate, those studies shall include detailed post-mortem macroscopic and microscopic examinations of the injection site. Other objective criteria shall be recorded, such as rectal temperature and performance measurements.This study may be part of the repeated dose study required under point 3 or omitted if the results of the overdose study required under point 2 have revealed no major signs of systemic or local reactions. If omitted, the systemic or local reactions seen in the overdose study shall be taken as the basis for describing safety of the product in the Summary of Product Characteristics. (2) Safety of one administration of an overdose
Only live immunological veterinary medicinal products require overdose testing.An overdose of the immunological veterinary medicinal product, normally consisting of ten doses, shall be administered by each recommended route(s) and method(s) of administration to animals of the most sensitive categories of the target species, unless the selection of the most sensitive of several similar routes is justified. In the case of immunological veterinary medicinal products administered by injection, the doses and route(s) and method(s) of administration shall be chosen to take account of the maximum volume, which can be administered at any one single injection site.The animals shall be observed and examined daily for at least 14 days after administration for signs of systemic and local reactions. Other criteria shall be recorded, such as rectal temperature and performance measurements.Where appropriate, those studies shall include detailed post-mortem macroscopic and microscopic examinations of the injection site if this has not been done under point 1. (3) Safety of the repeated administration of one dose
In the case of immunological veterinary medicinal products to be administered more than once, as part of the basic administration scheme, a study of the repeated administration of one dose shall be required to reveal any adverse effects induced by such administration.The test shall be carried out on the most sensitive categories of the target species (such as certain breeds, age groups), using each recommended route and method of administration.The number of administrations shall not be less than the maximum number recommended; for vaccines, this shall take account of the number of administrations for primary vaccination and the first re-vaccination.The interval between administrations may be shorter than the one claimed in the Summary of Product Characteristics. The chosen interval shall be justified with respect to the proposed conditions of use.The animals shall be observed and examined daily for at least 14 days after the last administration for signs of systemic and local reactions. Other objective criteria shall be recorded, such as rectal temperature and performance measurements.
(23) 'competent authority' means an authority designated by a Member State in accordance with Article 137;
Other objective criteria shall be recorded, such as rectal temperature and performance measurements. (4) Examination of reproductive performance
Examination of reproductive performance shall be considered when the immunological veterinary product is intended for use or may be used in pregnant animals or laying birds and when data suggest that the starting material from which the product is derived may be a potential risk factor.Reproductive performance of males and non-pregnant and pregnant females shall be investigated with the recommended dose and by the most sensitive route and method of administration.For immunological veterinary medicinal products that are recommended for use in pregnant animals, examination of the reproductive performance shall address safety of administration during the entire gestation period or during specific period of gestation taking into account the intended use of the product.The observation period shall be extended to parturition to investigate possible harmful effects on the progeny, including teratogenic and abortifacient effects.Those studies may form part of the safety studies described in points 1, 2, 3 or of the field trials provided for in Section IIIb.3C. (5) Examination of immunological functions
Where the immunological veterinary medicinal product might adversely affect the immune response of the vaccinated animal or of its progeny, suitable tests on immunological function shall be carried out. (6) Special requirements for live vaccines
(1) Spread of the vaccine strain
Spread of the vaccine strain from vaccinated to unvaccinated target animals shall be investigated, using the recommended route of administration most likely to result in the spread. Moreover, it may be necessary to investigate the spread to non-target animal species which could be highly susceptible to a live vaccine strain. An assessment of the number of animal-to-animal passages likely to occur under normal conditions of use and potential consequences shall be provided.(2) Dissemination in the vaccinated animal
Faeces, urine, milk, eggs, oral, nasal and other secretions shall be tested for the presence of the organism as appropriate. Moreover, studies may be required of the dissemination of the vaccine strain in the body, with particular attention being paid to the predilection sites for replication of the organism. In the case of live vaccines for zoonoses within the meaning of Directive 2003/99/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council to be used for food producing animals, those studies shall take particularly into account the persistence of the organism at the injection site.(3) Increase in virulence
Increase in or reversion to virulence shall be investigated with the master seed. If the master seed is not available in sufficient quantity the lowest passage seed used for the production shall be examined. Use of another passage option shall be justified. The initial vaccination shall be carried out using the route and method of administration most likely to lead to an increase in virulence indicative of reversion to virulence. Serial passages shall be made in target animals through five groups of animals, unless there is justification to make more passages or the organism disappears from the test animals sooner. Where the organism fails to replicate adequately, as many passages as possible shall be carried out in the target species.(4) Biological properties of the vaccine strain
Other tests may be necessary to determine as precisely as possible the intrinsic biological properties of the vaccine strain (e.g. neurotropism).For vaccines containing live genetically modified organism(s), where the product of a foreign gene is incorporated into the strain as a structural protein, the risk of changing the tropism or virulence of the strain shall be addressed and, where necessary, specific tests shall be conducted.(5) Recombination or genomic reassortment of strains
The probability of recombination or genomic reassortment with field or other strains shall be evaluated and the consequences of such events discussed. (7) User safety
This section shall include a discussion of the effects found in Part IIIb.3A to IIIb.3B and relate those effects to the type and extent of human exposure to the product with a view to formulating appropriate user warnings and other risk management measures.User safety shall be addressed in accordance with relevant guidance published by the Agency. (8) Interactions
If there is a compatibility statement with other veterinary medicinal products in the summary of product characteristics the safety of the association shall be investigated. Any other known interactions with veterinary medicinal products shall be described.IIIb.3C. Clinical trials
Unless otherwise justified, results from pre-clinical studies shall be supplemented with data from clinical trials, using batches representative of the manufacturing process described in the marketing authorisation application. Both safety and efficacy may be investigated in the same clinical trials.IIIb.3D. Environmental risk assessment
(1) An environmental risk assessment shall be performed to assess the potential harmful effects, which the use of the veterinary medicinal product may cause to the environment and to identify the risk of such effects. The assessment shall also identify any precautionary measures which may be necessary to reduce such risk. (2) This assessment consists of two phases. The first phase of the assessment shall always be performed. The details of the assessment shall be provided in accordance with guidance published by the Agency. It shall indicate the potential exposure of the environment to the product and the level of risk associated with any such exposure, taking into account in particular the following items: (a) 
the target animal species and the proposed pattern of use; (b) 
the route and method of administration, in particular the likely extent to which the product will enter directly into the environmental system; (c) 
the possible excretion or secretion of the product, its active substances into the environment by treated animals, persistence in such excreta or secreta; (d) 
the disposal of unused or waste product. (3) In the case of live vaccine strains which may be zoonotic, the risk to humans shall be assessed. (4) Where the conclusions of the first phase indicate a relevant potential risk for the environment of the product, the applicant shall proceed to the second phase and evaluate the potential risk(s) that the veterinary medicinal product might pose to the environment. Where necessary, further investigations on the impact of the product (soil, water, air, aquatic systems, non-target organisms) shall be carried out. (5) For DNA vaccines, a specific safety concern is the potential risk of migration of the DNA to gonadal tissues and potential DNA transfer into germ line cells of vaccinated male and female animals and thus potential transmission to offspring. The applicant shall evaluate and discuss potential risk(s) such immunological veterinary medicinal products might pose on human health and the environment (including plants and animals). If potential risk(s) are identified, investigations on the impact of the vaccine depending on its use in companion animals or in food producing animals shall be carried out to provide information on this point. IIIb.3E. Assessment required for veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms
(1) In the case of veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) the application shall also be accompanied by the documents required under Article 2 and Part C of Directive 2001/18/EC and the specific guidance dealing with GMOs.
(24) 'labelling' means information on the immediate packaging or the outer packaging;
(24) 'labelling' means information on the immediate packaging or the outer packaging;
(25) 'immediate packaging' means the container or any other form of packaging that is in direct contact with the veterinary medicinal product;
(25) 'immediate packaging' means the container or any other form of packaging that is in direct contact with the veterinary medicinal product;
Assessment required for veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms
(1) In the case of veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) the application shall also be accompanied by the documents required under Article 2 and Part C of Directive 2001/18/EC and the specific guidance dealing with GMOs.

(2) Potential adverse effects on human health and the environment, which may occur through gene transfer from GMOs to other organisms or arise from genetic modifications, shall be accurately assessed on a case-by-case basis. The objective of such an environmental risk assessment is, to identify and evaluate potential direct and indirect, immediate or delayed adverse effects of the GMO on human health and the environment (including plants and animals) and shall be carried out in accordance with the principles of Annex II to Directive 2001/18/EC. IIIb.3F. Residue tests to be included in the pre-clinical studies
(1) For immunological veterinary medicinal products, it will normally not be necessary to undertake a study of residues. (2) Where antibiotics, adjuvants, preservatives or any other excipient are used in the manufacture of immunological veterinary medicinal products intended for food producing animals and/or are included in the final formulation, consideration shall be given to the possibility of consumer exposure to residues in foodstuffs derived from treated animals and compliance with MRLs legislation. Consumer safety implications arising from their potential presence in the finished product shall be addressed. (3) In the case of live vaccines for well-established zoonotic diseases, in addition to the studies of dissemination, the determination of residual vaccine organisms at the injection site may be required. If necessary, the effects of such residues shall be investigated. (4) A proposal for a withdrawal period shall be made and its adequacy shall be discussed in relation to any residue studies which have been undertaken. IIIb.4. Part 4: Efficacy documentation (pre-clinical studies and clinical trial(s))
IIIb.4A. General requirements
(1) The following general requirements shall be complied with: (a) 
the efficacy studies shall be in line with the general European Pharmacopeia requirements; Deviations shall be justified. (b) 
the primary parameter on which determination of efficacy is based needs to be defined by the investigator at the time of study design and shall not be changed after the study is completed; (c) 
the planned statistical analysis shall be described in detail in the study protocols; (d) 
the choice of antigens or vaccine strains shall be justified on the basis of epizoological data; (e) 
efficacy trials carried out in the laboratory shall be controlled trials, including untreated control animals unless this is not justified for animal welfare reasons and efficacy can be otherwise demonstrated. (2) In general, pre-clinical studies shall be supported by trials carried out in field conditions. When pre-clinical studies fully support the claims made in the summary of product characteristics, trials carried out in field conditions are not required.Unless otherwise justified, results from pre-clinical studies shall be supplemented with data from clinical trials, using batches representative of the manufacturing process described in the marketing authorisation application. Both safety and efficacy may be investigated in the same clinical trials. (3) All trials shall be described in sufficient detail so as to be properly assessed by the competent authorities. The validity of all techniques used in the trial shall be demonstrated. (4) All results obtained, whether favourable or unfavourable, shall be reported: (a) 
The efficacy of an immunological veterinary medicinal product shall be demonstrated for each category of target animal species in which its use is recommended, by each recommended route and method of administration and using the proposed schedule of administration. Unless otherwise justified, the onset and duration of immunity shall be established and supported by data from trials. (b) 
The influence of passively acquired maternally derived antibodies on the efficacy of vaccines when administered to animals at an age at which maternally acquired immunity is still present shall be adequately evaluated, if appropriate. (c) 
The efficacy of each of the components of multivalent and combined immunological veterinary medicinal products shall be demonstrated. If the product is recommended for administration in combination with or at the same time as another veterinary medicinal product, to the efficacy of the association shall be demonstrated by appropriate studies. Any known interactions with any other veterinary medicinal products shall be described. (d) 
Whenever a product forms part of a vaccination scheme recommended by the applicant, the priming or booster effect or the contribution of the veterinary immunological product to the efficacy of the scheme as a whole shall be demonstrated. (e) 
The dose to be used shall be the quantity of the product to be recommended for use and the batch used for efficacy testing shall be taken from a batch or batches produced according to the manufacturing process described in Part 2 of the application. (f) 
For diagnostic immunological veterinary medicinal products administered to animals, the applicant shall indicate how reactions to the product are to be interpreted. (g) 
For vaccines intended to allow a distinction between vaccinated and infected animals (marker vaccines), where the efficacy claim is reliant on in vitro diagnostic tests, sufficient data on the diagnostic tests shall be provided to allow adequate assessment of the claims related to the marker properties. IIIb.4B. Pre-clinical studies
(1) In principle, demonstration of efficacy shall be undertaken under well-controlled laboratory conditions by challenge after administration of the immunological veterinary medicinal product to the target animal under the recommended conditions of use. Insofar as possible, the conditions under which the challenge is carried out shall reflect the natural conditions for infection. Details of the challenge strain and its relevance shall be provided. (2) For live vaccines, the product used for efficacy testing shall be taken from a batch or batches containing the minimum titre or potency. For other products, product from batches containing the minimum active content or potency expected at the end of the period of validity shall be used, unless otherwise justified. (3) If possible, the immune mechanism (cell-mediated/humoral, local/general classes of immunoglobulin) which is initiated after the administration of the immunological veterinary medicinal product to target animals by the recommended route of administration shall be specified and documented. (4) The following shall be provided for all pre-clinical studies: (a) 
a summary; ▼M2 —————
▼M1
(c) 
the name of the body having carried out the studies; (d) 
a detailed experimental protocol giving a description of the methods, apparatus and materials used, details such as species or breed of animals, categories of animals, where they were obtained, their identification and number, the conditions under which they were housed and fed (stating, inter alia, whether they were free from any specified pathogens and/or specified antibodies, the nature and quantity of any additives contained in the feed), dose, route, schedule and dates of administration, a description and a justification of the statistical methods used; (e) 
in the case of control animals, whether they received a placebo or no treatment; (f) 
in the case of treated animals and, where appropriate, whether they received the test product or another product authorised in the Union;
(26) 'outer packaging' means packaging in which the immediate packaging is placed;
(f) 
in the case of treated animals and, where appropriate, whether they received the test product or another product authorised in the Union;

(g) 
all general and individual observations and results obtained (with averages and standard deviations), whether favourable or unfavourable. The data shall be described in sufficient detail to allow the results to be critically evaluated independently of their interpretation by the author. The individual data shall be presented in tabular form. By way of explanation and illustration, the results may be accompanied by reproductions of recordings, photomicrographs, etc.; (h) 
the nature, frequency and duration of observed adverse reactions; (i) 
the number of animals withdrawn prematurely from the studies and reasons for such withdrawal; (j) 
a statistical analysis of the results, where such is called for by the test programme, and variance within the data; (k) 
occurrence and course of any intercurrent disease; (l) 
all details concerning veterinary medicinal products (other than the product under study), the administration of which was necessary during the course of the study; (m) 
any other observations and deviations from the protocol and possible impact on the results; (n) 
an objective discussion of the results obtained, leading to conclusions on the safety and efficacy of the product. IIIb.4C. Clinical trials
(1) Unless otherwise justified, results from pre-clinical studies shall be supplemented with data from field trials, using batches representative of the manufacturing process described in the marketing authorisation application. Both safety and efficacy may be investigated in the same field trial. (2) Where pre-clinical studies cannot be supportive of efficacy, the performance of field trials alone may be acceptable. (3) Particulars concerning field trials shall be sufficiently detailed to enable an objective judgement to be made. They shall include the following: (a) 
a summary; (b) 
a statement of compliance with good clinical practice; (c) 
name, address, function and qualifications of the investigator in charge; (d) 
place and date of administration, identity code that may be linked to the name and address of the owner of the animal(s); (e) 
details of the trial protocol, giving a description of the methods, apparatus and materials used, details such as the route and method of administration, the schedule of administration, the dose, the categories of animals, the duration of observation, the serological response and other investigations carried out on the animals after administration; (f) 
in the case of control animals, whether they received a placebo, a competitor product or no treatment; (g) 
identification of the treated and control animals (collective or individual, as appropriate), such as species, breeds or strains, age, weight, sex, physiological status; (h) 
a brief description of the method of rearing and feeding, stating the nature and quantity of any additives contained in the feed; (i) 
all the particulars on observations, performances and results (with averages and standard deviation); individual data shall be indicated when tests and measurements on individuals have been carried out; (j) 
a statistical analysis of the results, where such is called for by the test programme, and variance within the data; (k) 
all observations and results of the trials, whether favourable or unfavourable, with a full statement of the observations and the results of the objective tests of activity required to evaluate the product; the techniques used shall be specified and the significance of any variations in the results explained; (l) 
effects on the animals' performance; (m) 
the number of animals withdrawn prematurely from the trials and reasons for such withdrawal; (n) 
the nature, frequency and duration of observed adverse reactions; (o) 
occurrence and course of any intercurrent disease; (p) 
all details concerning veterinary medicinal products (other than the product under study) which have been administered either prior to or concurrently with the test product or during the observation period; details of any interactions observed; (q) 
any other observations and deviations for the protocol and possible impact on the results; (r) 
an objective discussion of the results obtained, leading to conclusions on the safety and efficacy of the product. IV.1. Applications for generic veterinary medicinal products
IV.1.1. Applications based on Article 18 (generic veterinary medicinal products) shall contain the data referred to in Parts 1 and 2 of Section II of this Annex. If required, pursuant to Article 18(7) an environmental risk assessment shall be included. In addition, the dossier shall contain data demonstrating that the product has the same qualitative and quantitative composition in active substance(s) and the same pharmaceutical form as the reference medicinal product; and data, showing bioequivalence with the reference medicinal product or a justification as to why such studies were not performed with reference to established guidance. All immediate-release oral pharmaceutical forms shall be considered to be the same pharmaceutical form. For biological (including immunological) veterinary medicinal products, the standard generic approach is in principle not considered appropriate, and a hybrid approach shall be followed (see Part IV.2.). IV.1.2. For generic veterinary medicinal products, the critical expert reports on safety and efficacy shall particularly focus on the following elements: (a) 
the grounds for claiming bioequivalence; (b) 
a summary of impurities present in batches of the active substance(s) as well as those of the finished medicinal product (and where relevant decomposition products arising during storage) together with an evaluation of those impurities; (c) 
an evaluation of the bioequivalence studies or other information that may provide support for claiming bioequivalence in accordance with relevant guidance published by the Agency; (d) 
any additional data in order to demonstrate the equivalence of safety and efficacy properties of different salts, esters or derivatives of an authorised active substance; (e) 
a review of the user safety risk assessment focusing on differences between the generic and reference veterinary medicinal products (for example, composition in excipients); (f) 
a review of environmental risk assessment, where relevant. IV.1.3. For a generic veterinary medicinal product application containing an antimicrobial substance, information about the level of resistance, as known from bibliographic data, shall be provided. IV.1.4. For a generic veterinary medicinal product containing an antiparasitic substance, information about the level of resistance, as known from bibliographic data, shall be provided. IV.1.5. For generic veterinary medicinal products intended to be administered by intramuscular, subcutaneous or transdermal routes, the following additional data shall be provided: (a) 
evidence to demonstrate equivalent or differing depletion of residues from the administration site, which may be substantiated by appropriate residue depletion studies; (b) 
evidence to demonstrate target animal tolerance at the administration site, which may be substantiated by appropriate target animal tolerance studies. IV.2. Applications for hybrid veterinary medicinal products
IV.2.1. Applications based on Article 19 (hybrid veterinary medicinal products) concern veterinary medicinal products, which are similar to a reference veterinary medicinal product, but which do not meet the conditions in the definition of generic veterinary medicinal product. IV.2.2. For such applications, the following information shall be supplied: (a) 
all the data referred to in Parts 1 and 2 of Sections II or III, as appropriate, of this Annex;
(26) 'outer packaging' means packaging in which the immediate packaging is placed;
(a) 
all the data referred to in Parts 1 and 2 of Sections II or III, as appropriate, of this Annex;

(b) 
for Parts 3 and 4 of the dossier, hybrid applications may rely in part on the results of the appropriate safety, residue, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials for an already authorised reference veterinary medicinal product, and in part on new data. New data shall include a user safety risk assessment and an environmental risk assessment in accordance with Article 18(7), if applicable. In addition, for relevant products (for example, antimicrobials, antiparasitics) the risk of development of resistance shall be addressed, if applicable. IV.2.3. In the case of biological (including immunological) veterinary medicinal products, a comprehensive comparability review, addressing the quality, safety and efficacy part shall be provided. IV.2.4. Where reference is made to data originating from another authorised veterinary medicinal product, a justification for the use and relevance of those data for the new product shall be provided. IV.2.5. The extent of new data required to support safety and efficacy will depend on the specific characteristics of the individual new product, and its differences to the reference veterinary medicinal product, and shall be determined on a case-by-case basis. New pre-clinical and clinical data for the new product shall be presented for all aspects where the reference veterinary medicinal product does not provide relevant support. IV.2.6. If new studies are conducted with batches of a reference veterinary medicinal product authorised in a third country, the applicant shall demonstrate that the reference veterinary medicinal product has been authorised in accordance with requirements equivalent to those established in the Union, and are so highly similar that they may substitute each other in the pre-clinical studies or clinical trials. IV.3. Applications for combination veterinary medicinal products
IV.3.1. An application for a fixed combination product with individual active substances, which have already been the object of a marketing authorisation for a veterinary medicinal product in the EEA, shall be submitted under Article 20. A fixed combination product containing at least one new active substance which has not yet been authorised for a veterinary medicinal product in the EEA, shall be submitted under Article 8. IV.3.2. For applications submitted under Article 20, a full dossier containing Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall be provided. IV.3.3. A sound scientific justification based on valid therapeutic principles for the combination of active substances, including clinical data, shall be provided, which demonstrates the need for and contribution of all active substances at the moment of treatment. IV.3.4. In general, all the data on the safety and efficacy shall be provided for the fixed combination product, and safety and efficacy data for the individual active substances alone are not required, except to clarify their individual pharmacological properties. IV.3.5. If data on the safety and efficacy of an individual known active substance are available to the applicant with sufficient amount of detail, those data could be provided to obviate the need for some studies with the fixed combination, or contributing relevant information. In that case, possible interaction between active substances shall also be investigated. IV.3.6. User safety assessment, environmental risk assessment, residues depletion studies, and clinical studies shall be conducted with the fixed combination product. IV.3.7. Unless the omission is justified, a target animal safety study with the final formulation shall be provided. IV.4. Applications based on informed consent
IV.4.1. Applications based on Article 21 concern products with identical composition, pharmaceutical form and manufacturing process (including raw and starting materials, process parameters and manufacturing sites) as the already authorised veterinary medicinal products. IV.4.2. The dossier for such applications shall only include data for Part 1A and 1B, as described in Annex I (points 1 to 6.4), provided that the marketing authorisation holder for the already authorised veterinary medicinal product has given the applicant his written consent to refer to the content of Parts 1C, 2, 3 and 4 of the dossier of that product. In that case, there is also no need to submit quality, safety and efficacy critical expert reports. The applicant shall provide proof of the written consent with their application. IV.5. Applications based on bibliographic data
IV.5.1. For veterinary medicinal products for which the active substance(s) has or have been in well-established veterinary use as referred to in Article 22, with recognised efficacy and an acceptable level of safety, the following specific rules shall apply. IV.5.2. A full dossier (containing Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4) shall be provided. The applicant shall submit Parts 1 and 2 as described in this Annex. For Parts 3 and 4, a detailed scientific bibliography together with information demonstrating the appropriate bridging between bibliographic references and the veterinary medicinal product shall be submitted to address safety and efficacy. The bibliographic data may need to be complemented by some documentation specific to the product, for example, user safety and environmental risk assessments, or residue study data to justify any proposed withdrawal period(s). IV.5.3. The specific rules set out in Part IV.5.3.1 to IV.5.3.12 shall apply in order to demonstrate well-established veterinary use. IV.5.3.1. In order to establish a well-established veterinary medicinal use of constituents of veterinary medicinal products, the following factors shall be taken into account: (a) 
the time over which an active substance has been regularly used in the target species using the proposed route of administration and dosage regimen; (b) 
quantitative aspects of the use of the active substance(s), taking into account the extent to which the substance(s) has or have been used in practice, and the extent of use on a geographical basis; (c) 
the degree of scientific interest in the use of the active substance(s) (reflected in the published scientific literature); (d) 
the coherence of scientific assessments. IV.5.3.2. Different periods of time may be necessary for establishing well-established use of different active substances. In any case, the period of time required for establishing a well-established veterinary use of a constituent of a medicinal product shall not be less than 10 years from the first systematic and documented use of that substance as a veterinary medicinal product in the Union. IV.5.3.3. Veterinary use does not exclusively mean use as an authorised veterinary medicinal product. Well-established veterinary use refers to the use for a specific therapeutic purpose in the target species. IV.5.3.4. If a substance in well-established use is proposed for entirely new therapeutic indications, it is not possible to solely refer to a well-established veterinary use. Additional data on the new therapeutic indication, together with appropriate safety and residue tests and preclinical and clinical data shall be provided and, in such a case, applications based on Article 21 is not possible. IV.5.3.5. The published documentation submitted by the applicant shall be freely available to the public and published by a reputable source, preferably peer-reviewed. IV.5.3.6. The documentation shall contain sufficient details to allow an independent assessment. IV.5.3.7. The documentation shall cover all aspects of the safety and/or efficacy assessment of the product for the proposed indication in the target species using the proposed route of administration and dosage regimen.
(27) 'package leaflet' means a documentation leaflet on a veterinary medicinal product which contains information to ensure its safe and efficacious use;
(27) 'package leaflet' means a documentation leaflet on a veterinary medicinal product which contains information to ensure its safe and efficacious use;
(28) 'letter of access' means an original document, signed by the data owner or its representative, which states that the data may be used for the benefit of the applicant in relation to the competent authorities, the European Medicines Agency established by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ('the Agency') or the Commission for the purposes of this Regulation;
(28) 'letter of access' means an original document, signed by the data owner or its representative, which states that the data may be used for the benefit of the applicant in relation to the competent authorities, the European Medicines Agency established by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ('the Agency') or the Commission for the purposes of this Regulation;
The documentation shall cover all aspects of the safety and/or efficacy assessment of the product for the proposed indication in the target species using the proposed route of administration and dosage regimen. It shall include or refer to a review of the relevant literature, taking into account pre- and post-marketing studies and published scientific literature concerning experience in the form of epidemiological studies and, in particular, of comparative epidemiological studies. IV.5.3.8. All documentation, both favourable and unfavourable, shall be communicated. With respect to the provisions on well-established veterinary use, it is in particular necessary to clarify that bibliographic reference to other sources of evidence (post-marketing studies, epidemiological studies etc.) and not just data related to tests and trials may serve as a valid proof of safety and efficacy of a product if the applicant explains and justifies the use of those sources of evidence satisfactorily. IV.5.3.9. Public assessment reports or freedom of information summaries cannot be considered to supply sufficient information, apart from the assessment report published by the Agency following the evaluation of an application for the establishment of maximum residue limits, which may be used in an appropriate manner as literature, particularly for the safety tests. IV.5.3.10. Particular attention shall be paid to any missing information, and justification shall be given as to why demonstration of an acceptable level of safety and/or efficacy may be supported although some information is lacking. IV.5.3.11. The critical expert reports regarding safety and efficacy shall explain the relevance of any data submitted, which concern a product different from the product intended for marketing. A judgement shall be made whether or not the product studied in the bibliography may be satisfactorily or scientifically bridged to the product, for which the application for a marketing authorisation has been made in spite of the existing differences. IV.5.3.12. Post-marketing experience with other products containing the same constituents is of particular importance and applicants shall put a special emphasis on this issue. IV.6. Applications for limited markets
IV.6.1. A marketing authorisation may be granted for a limited market in the absence of comprehensive safety and/or efficacy data when, as provided for in Article 23, the applicant demonstrates that the product is intended for use in a limited market and that the benefit of availability of the new product outweighs the risk associated with the omission of some of the safety or efficacy data required by this Annex. IV.6.2. For such applications, the applicant shall submit Parts 1 and 2 as described in this Annex. IV.6.3. For Parts 3 and 4, some of the safety or efficacy data required by this Annex may be omitted. As regards the extent of safety and efficacy data that may be omitted, the relevant guidance published by the Agency shall be taken into account. IV.7. Applications in exceptional circumstances
IV.7.1. In exceptional circumstances related to animal or public health, a marketing authorisation may be granted under Article 25 for a veterinary medicinal product, subject to certain specific obligations, conditions and/or restrictions. IV.7.2. For such applications, the applicant shall submit Part 1 as described in this Annex, together with a justification as to why the benefit of the immediate availability on the market of the veterinary medicinal product concerned outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that certain quality, safety or efficacy documentation has not been provided. IV.7.3. For Parts 2, 3 and 4, certain quality, safety or efficacy data required by this Annex may be omitted, if the applicant justifies that those data cannot be provided at the time of submission. For the identification of the essential requirements for all such applications, the relevant guidance published by the Agency shall be taken into account. IV.7.4. Post-authorisation studies may be requested as part of the conditions for marketing authorisation, and shall be designed, conducted, analysed and presented according to the general principles for quality, safety and efficacy tests set out in this Annex, and relevant guidance documents, as applicable depending on the issue to be addressed in the study. This Section lays down specific requirements for identified veterinary medicinal products related to the nature of the active substances contained therein.V.1. Novel therapies veterinary medicinal products
V.1.1 
General requirements
V.1.1.1. Depending on the active substance and the mode of action, a novel therapy veterinary medicinal product could fall under any of the three product categories: (a) 
veterinary medicinal products other than biological veterinary medicinal products; (b) 
biological veterinary medicinal products other than immunological veterinary medicinal products; (c) 
immunological veterinary medicinal products. V.1.1.2. In general, marketing authorisation applications for novel therapy veterinary medicinal products, as defined in Article 4(43), shall follow the format and data requirements described in Section II or III of this Annex depending on how the novel therapy is categorised. A full dossier containing Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall normally be provided in accordance with the requirements described in Section II or III and any relevant guidance published by the Agency. Deviations from the requirements of this Annex may be possible when justified. Where appropriate and taking into account the specificities of novel therapy products, additional requirements may be relevant for particular types of products. V.1.1.3. The manufacturing processes for novel therapy veterinary medicinal products shall comply with the principles of Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) adapted where necessary, to reflect the specific nature of those products. Guidelines specific to novel therapy veterinary products shall be drawn up, to properly reflect the particular nature of their manufacturing process. V.1.1.4. According to the specific nature of a novel therapy product the use of the product may potentially be associated with specific risks. Those risks shall be identified applying a risk profiling methodology to identify the risks inherent to the specific product and the risk factors contributing to those risks. In this context, risks would be any potential unfavourable effects that may be attributed to the use of the novel therapy product which are of concern to the target population and/or the user, the consumer, and/or the environment. The risk analysis may cover the entire development. Risk factors that may be considered include the origin of the starting material (cells etc.), the mode of action in the animal (proliferation, initiation of an immune response, permanence in the body, etc.), the level of cell manipulation (for example, the manufacturing process), the combination of the active substance with bioactive molecules or structural materials, the extent of replication competence of viruses or micro-organisms used in vivo, the level of integration of nucleic acids sequences or genes into the genome, the long-time functionality, the risk of oncogenicity, the off-target effects and the mode of administration or use. V.1.1.5. Based on the evaluation of the information on the identified risks and risk factors a specific profile of each individual risk associated with a specific product shall be established and may be used to determine and justify how the data set provided gives the necessary assurances for quality, safety and efficacy and is adequate to support a marketing authorisation application, especially for those aspects of novel therapy products that are beyond current knowledge.
(29) 'limited market' means a market for one of the following medicinal product types: (a) veterinary medicinal products for the treatment or prevention of diseases that occur infrequently or in limited geographical areas; (b) veterinary medicinal products for animal species other than cattle, sheep for meat production, pigs, chickens, dogs and cats;
V.1.1.5. Based on the evaluation of the information on the identified risks and risk factors a specific profile of each individual risk associated with a specific product shall be established and may be used to determine and justify how the data set provided gives the necessary assurances for quality, safety and efficacy and is adequate to support a marketing authorisation application, especially for those aspects of novel therapy products that are beyond current knowledge. V.1.1.6. To address data gaps or uncertainties at the time of product authorisation, implementation of post-authorisation measures or studies may be considered on a case-by-case basis. In order to detect early or delayed signals of adverse reactions, to prevent clinical consequences of such reactions and to ensure timely treatment and to gain information on the long-term safety and efficacy of novel therapy veterinary medicinal products a risk management plan shall detail the measures envisaged to ensure such follow up. V.1.1.7. For any novel therapy product, in particular those considered as a nascent field in veterinary medicine, it is recommended to seek the advice of the Agency in a timely manner before submission of the marketing authorisation dossier in order to classify the product, determine the applicable dossier structure and to receive relevant information about the additional data set which may be necessary to support quality, safety and efficacy. V.1.2. Quality requirements
V.1.2.1. In general, description of the composition, the manufacturing method, consistency of production, controls of starting materials, controls implemented during the manufacturing process, finished product testing including implementation of an activity test or a quantification of the active substance and stability data shall be submitted. V.1.2.2. The data requirements for manufacturing and testing for novel therapy veterinary medicinal products of biological origin and classified as a biological product or as an immunological product shall in general be in accordance with those for biological or immunological medicinal products (as described in Section III of this Annex) including the need for a relevant potency test. There may be cases where additional requirements are applicable, for example, cells and vector gene constructs. V.1.2.3. For novel therapy veterinary medicinal products constructed by chemical synthesis, data requirements as for veterinary medicinal products other than biological products (as described in Section II of this Annex) are generally applicable. There may be cases where additional requirements are applicable, for example, a relevant potency test. V.1.3. Safety requirements
V.1.3.1. Depending on the nature of the product and its intended use, further data to evaluate safety for the target animal, the user, the consumer or the environment could be relevant as determined by a risk analysis in each case. V.1.3.2. The requirements of Directive 2001/18/EC shall be taken into consideration when the treated animal itself could become a genetically modified organism. While Directive 2001/18/EC applies to finished products containing genetic modified organisms, it remains the best technical guide currently available for listing the necessary data. In particular, a main issue is the integration rate of DNA into germ cells (thus transmissible to offspring) or the potential transmission of the genetically modified cells to offspring. It shall also be noted that this problem is not completely the same when considering companion animals and food-producing animals (human consumption of products containing genetic modified organisms). V.1.3.3. For substances intended for integration into or editing of the genome, appropriate tests shall be performed to evaluate the risk of off-target modifications and/or insertional mutagenesis. V.1.4. Efficacy requirements
V.1.4.1. Efficacy data requirements differ primarily depending on the intended indications for use in the target species. Depending on the novel therapy product categorisation and the intended use in the target species, the efficacy requirements set out in Sections II or III may be applicable for a novel therapy veterinary medicinal product. V.1.4.2. The indications claimed shall be supported by appropriate data in the target species. V.1.5. Specific data requirements for particular types of novel therapy products
V.1.5.1. Principles
V.1.5.1.1. Taking into account the specificities of novel therapy products, specific requirements additional to the standard requirements for evaluation of quality, safety and efficacy may be appropriate. V.1.5.1.2. The following sections highlight specific requirements to be considered for particular type of novel therapy products. Those specific requirements established for a particular type of novel therapy product represent a non-exhaustive list of requirements that may need to be adapted to the specific product concerned on a case-by-case basis and based on a risk analysis. V.1.5.1.3. In all cases and especially for novel therapies that are considered nascent in the field of veterinary medicine, applicants will need to take into account the current state of veterinary medicinal knowledge and the scientific guidance published by the Agency and the Commission, consistent with Section I of this Annex. V.1.5.2. Gene therapy veterinary medicinal products
V.1.5.2.1. Gene therapy products are biological veterinary medicinal products that contain an active substance which contains or consists of a recombinant nucleic acid used in or administered to animals with a view to regulating, repairing, replacing, adding or deleting a genetic sequence. Their therapeutic, prophylactic or diagnostic effect relates directly to the recombinant nucleic acid sequence they contain, or to the product of genetic expression of this sequence. V.1.5.2.2. In addition to the data requirements set out in Sections II or III the following requirements shall apply: (a) 
information shall be provided on all the starting materials used for the manufacture of the active substance, including the products necessary for the genetic modification of cells, as applicable, subsequent culture and preservation of the genetically modified cells, taking into consideration the possible absence of purification steps; (b) 
for products containing a microorganism or a virus, data on the genetic modification, sequence analysis, attenuation of virulence, tropism for specific tissues and cell types, cell cycle dependence of the microorganism or virus, pathogenicity and characteristics of the parental strain shall be provided; (c) 
process-related impurities and product-related impurities shall be described in the relevant sections of the dossier and in particular replication competent virus contaminants if the vector is designed to be replication incompetent; (d) 
for plasmids, quantification of the different plasmid forms shall be undertaken throughout the shelf life of the product; (e) 
for genetically modified cells, the characteristics of the cells before and after the genetic modification, as well as before and after any subsequent freezing/storage procedures, shall be tested. For genetically modified cells, in addition to the specific requirements for gene therapy medicinal products, the quality requirements for cell therapy medicinal products and tissue engineered products shall apply; (f) 
off-target insertions (leading, for example, to tumours/cancer, metabolic dysfunctions) and insertional mutagenesis and genotoxicity (insertion of genetic elements and the expression of DNA-modifying proteins as mediators of genotoxic side effects) in target species need to be considered; (g) 
germline transmission studies shall be provided, unless otherwise justified. V.1.5.3.
(29) 'limited market' means a market for one of the following medicinal product types: (a) veterinary medicinal products for the treatment or prevention of diseases that occur infrequently or in limited geographical areas; (b) veterinary medicinal products for animal species other than cattle, sheep for meat production, pigs, chickens, dogs and cats;
V.1.5.3. Regenerative medicine, tissue engineering and cell therapy veterinary medicinal products
V.1.5.3.1. Regenerative medicines are considered to encompass a wide area of products and therapies with a general purpose of restoring functions. Those medicines include cell-based therapies in which tissue engineered products are included. V.1.5.3.2. Cell therapy veterinary medicinal products are biological veterinary medicinal products that contain or consist of cells or tissues that have been subject to substantial manipulation in either nature or function so that biological characteristics, physiological functions or structural properties relevant for the intended clinical use have been altered, or of cells or tissues that are not intended to be used for the same essential function(s) in the recipient and the donor. They are presented as having properties for, or are used in or administered to animals with a view to treating, preventing or diagnosing a disease through the pharmacological, immunological or metabolic action of its cells or tissues or to regenerating, repairing or replacing a tissue. V.1.5.3.3. In addition to the data requirements set out in Sections II or III the following requirements shall apply: (a) 
summary information shall be provided on procurement and testing of the animal tissue and cells used as starting materials. If non-healthy cells or tissues are used as starting materials, their use shall be justified; (b) 
the potential variability introduced through the animal tissues and cells shall be addressed as part of the validation of the manufacturing process, characterisation of the active substance and the finished product, development of assays, setting of specifications and stability; (c) 
for the genetic modification of the cells, the technical requirements specified for gene therapy products shall apply; (d) 
relevant information shall be provided on the characterisation of the cell population or cell mixture in terms of identity, purity (for example, extraneous agents and cellular contaminants), viability, potency, karyology, tumourigenicity and suitability for the intended medicinal use. The genetic stability of the cells shall be demonstrated; (e) 
the impact and interactions of any components likely to interact (directly or as a result of degradation or metabolism) with the active substance shall be investigated; (f) 
where a three-dimensional structure is part of the intended function, the differentiation state, structural and functional organisation of the cells and, where applicable, the extracellular matrix generated shall be part of the characterisation for those cell-based products. V.1.5.4. Veterinary medicinal product specifically designed for phage therapy
V.1.5.4.1. Bacteriophages are viruses that depend on bacterial hosts for proliferation and act very specifically on certain bacterial strains. Phage therapy may be used, for example, as an alternative to antibiotics. Generally, bacteriophages consist of a genome, comprised of single or double stranded DNA or RNA, encapsulated by a protein capsid. Due to the diversity of the intended targets for treatment and the specificity of the bacteriophages, it will be necessary to choose the suitable bacteriophage strain against the disease-causing bacterial strain on a case-by-case basis for the individual outbreak of the disease. V.1.5.4.2. The quality and quantity of the bacteriophages to be used in the finished product are normally variable. Therefore, a fixed qualitative and quantitative composition of bacteriophages will not be the usual situation as the phages need to be adapted on an ongoing basis. Based on this a seed stock of bacteriophages strains need to be established and maintained (comparable with a multi-strain approach). V.1.5.4.3. Bacteriophages as well as host bacteria/master cell banks for manufacturing shall preferably be produced based on a master seed system. Confirmation shall be provided that the bacteriophage used is lytic. V.1.5.4.4. The absence of resistance gene(s) and the absence of genes coding for virulence factors shall be shown on all master seeds. V.1.5.4.5. The indication shall be for prophylactic, metaphylactic and/or therapeutic treatment of one or several specific infection(s) or infectious disease(s). Efficacy of treatment is linked to the lytic activity of phages that confers bactericidal activity on those bacteriophages with specificity for the bacterial strain concerned. V.1.5.4.6. For genetically modified phages, the genetic modification shall be described. V.1.5.5. Veterinary medicinal product issued from nanotechnologies
V.1.5.5.1. Nanotechnologies are seen primarily as a technology to generate carriers for chemically synthesised substances but may also be carriers for biological substances. The use of nanoparticles may be a way of controlling delivery of substances with low solubility or toxic compounds. V.1.5.5.2. 'Nanotechnology' corresponds to the design, characterisation, and production of nanomaterials by controlling shape and size at the nanoscale (up to around 100 nm). V.1.5.5.3. 'Nanoparticles' are considered to have two or more dimensions at the nanoscale. V.1.5.5.4. Within the veterinary field, nanoparticles for drug delivery system are relevant as 'products issued from nanotechnologies': nanoparticles are conjugated with substances in order to change the pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic properties. mRNA drugs are rather encapsulated in nanoparticle delivery systems. V.1.5.5.5. In addition to the quality data requirements set out in Sections II or III the following requirements shall apply: (a) 
size distribution of particles shall be determined; (b) 
a suitable in vitro test for their function and possible delivery capacity (if used as drug delivery system) shall be used. V.1.5.5.6. With regard to safety, the kind of hazards that are introduced by using nanoparticles for drug delivery may be beyond conventional hazards imposed by chemicals in classical delivery matrices. Therefore, the following aspects shall be considered with regard to safety: (a) 
The nanoparticles for drug delivery could influence the toxicity of the medicinal product. The toxicity of the active substance is pivotal to the product but the toxicity of the nanoparticle for drug delivery shall also be considered, as they may introduce specific risks (agglomerates, cytotoxicity), may convey impurities by adsorption, may generate toxic materials by degradation or solubilisation, or may be transferred through physiological barrier (haemato-encephalic, foeto-placental, cell and nuclear membranes, etc.). In this context: (i) 
when physiological barriers are crossed, the impact of nanoparticles for drug delivery shall be investigated on the corresponding organ(s); (ii) 
the impact of agglomerates shall be investigated in the different targeted organs, focusing in particular on the risk of embolism in the smaller blood vessels; (iii) 
safety issues of the nanoparticles for drug delivery may be linked to a cumulative effect, a degradation profile or persistence in the body with negative effects on the functions of the targeted organs; (iv) 
safety issues might also be perceived at the cell level. Cells might not always be able to eliminate the nanoparticles conveyed through the cell membrane, leading to cytotoxicity especially via the induction of an oxidative stress. The toxicological assays to be implemented shall be able to assess this cytotoxicity and the related aspects, such as the generation of toxic free radicals and biopersistence. (b) 
The toxicology profile of the active substances contained in nanoparticles for drug delivery may differ as they may be distributed differently into various internal organs (different solubility in biological matrices), or as they may unexpectedly cross various biological barriers within the body, such as the brain barrier.
(30) 'pharmacovigilance' means the science and activities relating to the detection, assessment, understanding and prevention of suspected adverse events or any other problem related to a medicinal product;
(30) 'pharmacovigilance' means the science and activities relating to the detection, assessment, understanding and prevention of suspected adverse events or any other problem related to a medicinal product;
(31) 'pharmacovigilance system master file' means a detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system used by the marketing authorisation holder with respect to one or more authorised veterinary medicinal products;
(31) 'pharmacovigilance system master file' means a detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system used by the marketing authorisation holder with respect to one or more authorised veterinary medicinal products;
(b) 
The toxicology profile of the active substances contained in nanoparticles for drug delivery may differ as they may be distributed differently into various internal organs (different solubility in biological matrices), or as they may unexpectedly cross various biological barriers within the body, such as the brain barrier.

(c) 
The side effects linked to the active substances may be exacerbated when they are delivered by nanoparticles. (d) 
Immunosafety issues such as immunotoxicity (direct damage to immune cells), immunostimulation, immunosuppression and immunomodulation (such as complement activation, inflammation, activation of the innate or adaptive immunity), were already identified for nanomedicines. (e) 
The capacity of nanoparticles to create inflammatory or allergic reactions shall be considered. The capacity to penetrate into the blood stream and to induce inflammatory reactions may lead to disseminated intravascular coagulation or fibrinolysis with further consequences such as thrombosis. The haemocompatibility of the nanoparticles shall therefore be checked. V.1.5.6. RNA antisense therapy and RNA interference therapy products
V.1.5.6.1. Antisense therapy and interference therapy products may be generated by synthesis or through recombinant techniques. V.1.5.6.2. Antisense RNA is a single stranded RNA that is complementary to a protein coding messenger RNA with which it hybridises, and thereby blocks its translation into protein. V.1.5.6.3. RNA interference is a biological process in which RNA molecules inhibit gene expression or translation, by neutralising targeted mRNA molecules. V.1.5.6.4. In addition to the data requirements set out in Sections II or III the following requirements shall apply: (a) 
the minimum amount of RNA segments per volume needs to be established as part of control tests of the finished product, as well as the confirmation that the RNA segments present the correct sequence; (b) 
for certain antisense therapy products falling under Section II of this Annex a potency bioassay may be needed for their release testing; (c) 
stability studies shall include a test to monitor the degradation rate of the RNA segments over time; (d) 
for RNA antisense therapy products, the possible harmful effects due to on- or off-target binding shall be addressed as well as possible non-antisense harmful effects due to, for example, accumulation, pro-inflammatory responses and aptamer binding; (e) 
for RNAi therapy products, the possible harmful effects of off-target interference (due to the positive RNAi strand) shall be addressed, as well as the possibility of crossing the blood-brain barrier and causing central nervous system disorders; (f) 
for RNA antisense therapy and RNA interference therapy products intended for gene therapy the requirements for gene therapy veterinary medicinal product shall be considered. V.2. Vaccine Antigen Master File
For particular immunological veterinary medicinal products and by derogation from Section IIIb, Part 2, the concept of a Vaccine Antigen Master File is introduced. V.2.1. Principles
V.2.1.1. For the purpose of this Annex, a Vaccine Antigen Master File means a stand-alone part of the marketing authorisation application dossier for a vaccine, which contains all relevant information on quality concerning each of the active substances, which are part of the veterinary medicinal product. The stand-alone part may be common to one or more monovalent and/or combined vaccines presented by the same applicant or marketing authorisation holder. V.2.1.2. The use of Vaccine Antigen Master Files is optional. For combined vaccines, the vaccine antigen(s) to be included in Vaccine Antigen Master File(s) shall be specified and a separate Vaccine Antigen Master File shall be required for each of them. V.2.1.3. The submission and approval of a Vaccine Antigen Master File shall comply with the relevant guidance published by the Agency. V.2.2. Content
The Vaccine Antigen Master File dossier shall contain the information in Parts V.2.2.1 to V.2.3.3 extracted from the relevant sections of Part 1 (Summary of the dossier) and Part 2 (Quality documentation) as set out in Section IIIb of this Annex: V.2.2.1. Summary of the dossier (Part 1)
The name and address of the manufacturer(s) and the site(s) involved in the different stages of manufacture and control of the active substance, accompanied by copies of the corresponding manufacturing authorisations, shall be given. V.2.2.2. Qualitative and quantitative particulars of the constituents (Part 2.A)
The complete and exact name of the active substance (for example, virus or bacteria strain, antigen) shall be provided, in the same way as mentioned in any finished product. Information on product development relevant to the active substance shall be provided. V.2.2.3. Description of the manufacturing method (Part 2.B)
The description of the manufacturing method for the active substance shall be provided including validation of the key stages of production and justification, if relevant, of any intermediate storage proposed. For inactivated vaccines, data relevant to the inactivation of the active substance, including the validation of the inactivation process shall be provided. V.2.2.4. Production and control of starting materials (Part 2.C)
V.2.2.4.1. The standard requirements described in Section IIIb.2C and relevant to the active substance shall apply. V.2.2.4.2. Information on the active substance (for example, virus/bacteria strain), the substrate/s (cells, culture medium) and all the raw materials (pharmacopoeia or non-pharmacopoeia, biological or non-biological) used in the production of the active substance shall be provided. V.2.2.4.3. The dossier shall include the specifications, information on the processes implemented and on the tests to be conducted for the quality control of all batches of starting materials and results for a batch for all components used. V.2.2.4.4. TSE and extraneous agents (EA) risk assessment shall be provided, where applicable. It is to be noted that the target species retained for the finished products making reference to the Vaccine Antigen Master File shall be considered for the TSE and EA risk assessment. Warnings or restrictions of use may be brought in at the Vaccine Antigen Master File level depending on the information presented, which may be mitigated during the risk analysis at the level of the finished product. V.2.2.4.5. If the active substance is obtained by recombinant techniques, all corresponding relevant data on the genetically modified virus/bacteria shall be provided. V.2.2.5. Control tests during the manufacturing process (Part 2.D)
The standard requirements described in Section IIIb.2D shall apply for the in-process control tests carried out during the manufacture of the active substance, including validations of key control tests and, if relevant, any intermediate storage proposed (prior to blending). V.2.2.6. Batch-to-batch consistency (Part 2.F)
The standard requirements described in Section IIIb.2F shall apply for the demonstration of consistency in the manufacture of the antigen. V.2.2.7. Stability (Part 2.G)
The standard requirements described in Section IIIb.2G to demonstrate the stability of the antigen and, where relevant any intermediate storage, shall apply. V.2.3. Evaluation and certification
V.2.3.1. For vaccines containing new vaccine antigen(s) where no Vaccine Antigen Master File already exists, the applicant shall submit to the Agency a full marketing authorisation application dossier including all the Vaccine Antigen Master Files corresponding to each single vaccine antigen for which the use of a Vaccine Antigen Master File is intended. A scientific and technical evaluation of each Vaccine Antigen Master File shall be carried out by the Agency.
(32) 'control' means any task performed by a competent authority for the verification of compliance with this Regulation;
A scientific and technical evaluation of each Vaccine Antigen Master File shall be carried out by the Agency. A positive evaluation shall result in a certificate of compliance with Union legislation for each Vaccine Antigen Master File, which shall be accompanied by the evaluation report. The certificate shall apply throughout the Union. V.2.3.2. Part V.2.3.1 shall also apply to every vaccine, which consists of a novel combination of vaccine antigens, irrespective of whether or not one or more of those vaccine antigens are part of vaccines already authorised in the Union. V.2.3.3. Changes to the content of a Vaccine Antigen Master File for a vaccine authorised in the Union shall be subject to a scientific and technical evaluation carried out by the Agency. In the case of a positive evaluation, the Agency shall issue a certificate of compliance with Union legislation for the Vaccine Antigen Master File. The certificate issued shall apply throughout the Union. V.3. Multi-strain dossier
V.3.1. For certain immunological veterinary medicinal products and by derogation from the provisions of Section IIIb, Part 2, the concept of the use of a multi-strain dossier is introduced. V.3.2. A multi-strain dossier means a single dossier containing the relevant data for a unique and thorough scientific assessment of the different options of strains/combinations of strains permitting the authorisation of inactivated vaccines against antigenically variable viruses or bacteria for which rapid or frequent change in the composition of vaccine formulations is needed to ensure efficacy with regard to the epidemiological situation in the field. According to the epidemiological situation where the vaccine is intended to be used, a number of strains could be selected from those included in the dossier to formulate a final product. V.3.3. Each multi-strain dossier is applicable only to one virus species, bacteria genus or vector for a given disease; mixtures of various viruses belonging to different families, genera, species or bacteria belonging to different families or genera cannot be approved in the context of a multi-strain dossier. V.3.4. For new applications to multi-strain dossier marketing authorisations where no authorised multi-strain vaccine already exists for a particular virus/bacterium/disease, eligibility for the multi-strain dossier approach shall be confirmed by the Agency before submission of the application. V.3.5. The submission of multi-strain dossiers shall comply with relevant guidance published by the Agency. V.4. Vaccine platform technology
V.4.1. Principles
V.4.1.1. Vaccine platform technology is a collection of technologies that have in common the use of a 'backbone' carrier or vector that is modified with a different antigen or set of antigens for each vaccine derived from the platform. This includes, but may not be limited to, protein-based platforms (virus-like particles), DNA vaccine platforms, mRNA based platforms, replicons (self-replicating RNA) and viral and bacterial vector vaccines. V.4.1.2. Applications for marketing authorisations of immunological veterinary medicinal products manufactured based on vaccine platform technologies are considered to be eligible for reduced data requirements. A full dossier is required for the first product from a manufacturer based on a particular platform technology for a particular target species. At the time of submission of the first (full) dossier based on the platform technology, the applicant may submit in parallel a 'Platform Technology Master File' comprising all data relative to the platform for which there is reasonable scientific certainty that will remain unchanged regardless of the antigen(s)/gene(s) of interest added to the platform. The nature of the data to be included in the Platform Technology Master File will depend on the type of platform. V.4.1.3. Once a Platform Technology Master File is certified, the certificate may be used to fulfil the relevant data requirements in subsequent applications for marketing authorisations based on the same platform and intended for the same target species. V.4.2. Evaluation and certification
V.4.2.1. The submission of Platform Technology Master Files shall comply with relevant guidance published by the Agency. A scientific and technical evaluation of a Platform Technology Master File shall be carried out by the Agency. A positive evaluation shall result in a certificate of compliance with Union legislation for the Platform Technology Master File, which shall be accompanied by the evaluation report. The certificate shall apply throughout the Union. V.4.2.2. Changes to the content of a Platform Technology Master File for a vaccine authorised in the Union shall be subject to a scientific and technical evaluation carried out by the Agency. V.4.2.3. In the case of a positive evaluation the Agency shall issue a certificate of compliance with Union legislation for the Platform Technology Master File. V.5. Authorised homeopathic veterinary medicinal products
V.5.1. Quality (Part 2)
The provisions of Section II.2. Part 2 shall apply to the documents for authorisation of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 85(2) with the following modifications. V.5.2. Terminology
The Latin name of the homeopathic stock described in the marketing authorisation application dossier shall be in accordance with the Latin title of the European Pharmacopoeia or, in absence thereof, of an official pharmacopoeia of a Member State. Where relevant the traditional name(s) used in each Member State shall be provided. V.5.3. Control of starting materials
The particulars and documents on the starting materials, that is to say, all of the materials used including raw materials and intermediates up to the final dilution to be incorporated into the finished authorised homeopathic veterinary medicinal product, accompanying the application, shall be supplemented by additional data on the homeopathic stock.The general quality requirements shall apply to all of the starting and raw materials as well as intermediate steps of the manufacturing process up to the final dilution to be incorporated into the finished homeopathic product. Where a toxic component is present, this shall be controlled, if possible, in the final dilution. If this is not possible because of the high dilution, the toxic component shall normally be controlled at an earlier stage. Every step of the manufacturing process from the starting materials up to the final dilution to be incorporated into the finished product shall be fully described.Where dilutions are involved, those dilution steps shall be done in accordance with the homeopathic manufacturing methods laid down in the relevant monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia or, in absence thereof, in an official pharmacopoeia of a Member State. V.5.4. Control tests on the finished medicinal product
The general quality requirements shall apply to the homeopathic finished veterinary medicinal products. Any exception shall be duly justified by the applicant.Identification and assay of all the toxicologically relevant constituents shall be carried out. If justified that identification and/or an assay on all the toxicologically relevant constituents is not possible, for example, due to their dilution in the finished medicinal product the quality shall be demonstrated by complete validation of the manufacturing and dilution process. V.5.5. Stability tests
The stability of the finished product shall be demonstrated. Stability data from the homeopathic stocks are generally transferable to dilutions/potentisations obtained thereof. If no identification or assay of the active substance is possible due to the degree of dilution, stability data of the pharmaceutical form may be considered. V.5.6.
(32) 'control' means any task performed by a competent authority for the verification of compliance with this Regulation;
(33) 'veterinary prescription' means a document issued by a veterinarian for a veterinary medicinal product or a medicinal product for human use for its use in animals;
(33) 'veterinary prescription' means a document issued by a veterinarian for a veterinary medicinal product or a medicinal product for human use for its use in animals;
V.5.6. Safety documentation (Part 3)
Part 3 shall apply to homeopathic veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 4(10) of this Regulation with the following specification, without prejudice to the provisions of Commission Regulation (EU) No 37/2010 (
20
) on pharmacologically active substances and their classification regarding maximum residue limits in foodstuffs of animal origin.Any missing information shall be justified, for example, justification shall be given as to why demonstration of an acceptable level of safety may be supported, even where some studies are lacking.
(34) 'withdrawal period' means the minimum period between the last administration of a veterinary medicinal product to an animal and the production of foodstuffs from that animal which under normal conditions of use is necessary to ensure that such foodstuffs do not contain residues in quantities harmful to public health;
(34) 'withdrawal period' means the minimum period between the last administration of a veterinary medicinal product to an animal and the production of foodstuffs from that animal which under normal conditions of use is necessary to ensure that such foodstuffs do not contain residues in quantities harmful to public health;
(35) 'placing on the market' means the first making available of a veterinary medicinal product on the whole of the Union market or in one or more Member States, as applicable;
(35) 'placing on the market' means the first making available of a veterinary medicinal product on the whole of the Union market or in one or more Member States, as applicable;
(36) 'wholesale distribution' means all activities consisting of procuring, holding, supplying or exporting veterinary medicinal products whether for profit or not, apart from retail supply of veterinary medicinal products to the public;
(36) 'wholesale distribution' means all activities consisting of procuring, holding, supplying or exporting veterinary medicinal products whether for profit or not, apart from retail supply of veterinary medicinal products to the public;
(37) 'aquatic species' mean species referred to in point
(37) 'aquatic species' mean species referred to in point
(38) 'food-producing animals' mean food-producing animals as defined in point (b) of Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 470/2009;
(38) 'food-producing animals' mean food-producing animals as defined in point (b) of Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 470/2009;
(39) 'variation' means a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for a veterinary medicinal product as referred to in Article 36;
(39) 'variation' means a change to the terms of the marketing authorisation for a veterinary medicinal product as referred to in Article 36;
(40) 'advertising of veterinary medicinal products' means the making of a representation in any form in connection with veterinary medicinal products in order to promote the supply, distribution, sale, prescription or use of veterinary medicinal products and comprising also the supply of samples and sponsorships;
(40) 'advertising of veterinary medicinal products' means the making of a representation in any form in connection with veterinary medicinal products in order to promote the supply, distribution, sale, prescription or use of veterinary medicinal products and comprising also the supply of samples and sponsorships;
(41) 'signal management process' means a process for performing active surveillance of pharmacovigilance data for veterinary medicinal products in order to assess the pharmacovigilance data and determine whether there is any change to the benefit-risk balance of those veterinary medicinal products, with a view to detecting risks to animal or public health or protection of the environment;
(41) 'signal management process' means a process for performing active surveillance of pharmacovigilance data for veterinary medicinal products in order to assess the pharmacovigilance data and determine whether there is any change to the benefit-risk balance of those veterinary medicinal products, with a view to detecting risks to animal or public health or protection of the environment;
(42) 'potential serious risk to human or animal health or to the environment' means a situation where there is a significantly high probability that a serious hazard resulting from the use of a veterinary medicinal product will affect human or animal health or the environment;
(42) 'potential serious risk to human or animal health or to the environment' means a situation where there is a significantly high probability that a serious hazard resulting from the use of a veterinary medicinal product will affect human or animal health or the environment;
(43) 'novel therapy veterinary medicinal product' means: (a) a veterinary medicinal product specifically designed for gene therapy, regenerative medicine, tissue engineering, blood product therapy, phage therapy; (b) a veterinary medicinal product issued from nanotechnologies; or (c) any other therapy which is considered as a nascent field in veterinary medicine;
(43) 'novel therapy veterinary medicinal product' means: (a) a veterinary medicinal product specifically designed for gene therapy, regenerative medicine, tissue engineering, blood product therapy, phage therapy; (b) a veterinary medicinal product issued from nanotechnologies; or (c) any other therapy which is considered as a nascent field in veterinary medicine;
(44) 'epidemiological unit' means an epidemiological unit as defined in point
(44) 'epidemiological unit' means an epidemiological unit as defined in point