recital 10
(10) A robust framework for the prohibition of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies should ensure that the emissions behaviour of vehicles is not altered between compliance testing and real-world driving, and that data on sensors, fuel or electric energy consumption, electric range, and battery durability remains accurate and reliable.

It is therefore appropriate to set out general and technical requirements, as well as specific documentation requirements, to implement the prohibition of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies, and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of manufacturers, type-approval authorities, market surveillance authorities, the Commission and recognised third parties.
Article 10 - In-service conformity
1. Measures to ensure in-service conformity of vehicles type-approved under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 shall be taken in accordance with the conformity of production arrangements as laid down in Article 31 of Regulation (EU) 2018/858, Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2018/858 and Annex II to this Regulation.

2. The in-service conformity checks shall verify that exhaust emissions other than CO2 and optionally evaporative emissions are effectively limited during the main and additional lifetime of vehicles under normal conditions of use. 3. In-service conformity shall be checked on properly maintained and used vehicles, in accordance with Appendix 1 of Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 83, between 15 000 km or 6 months whichever occurs later and 200 000 km or 10 years whichever occurs sooner. In service conformity for evaporative emissions shall be checked on properly maintained and used vehicles, in accordance with Appendix 1 of Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 8, between 30 000 km or 12 months whichever occurs later and 200 000 km or 10 years whichever occurs sooner. The requirements for in-service conformity checks are applicable until 10 years after the last Certificate of Conformity or individual approval certificate is issued for vehicles of an in-service conformity family that is subject to testing according to paragraph 9.4 of UN Regulation No 83, as defined in paragraph 3 of Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 83. 4. In-service conformity checks shall not be mandatory if the annual sales of the in-service conformity family are less than 5 000 vehicles in the Union for the previous calendar year. For such in-service conformity families, the manufacturer shall provide the approval authority with a report of any emissions related warranty and relevant repair as set out in paragraph 4 of Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 83. Such in-service conformity families may still be selected to be tested in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. 5. The manufacturer and the granting type-approval authority shall perform in-service conformity checks in accordance with Annex II. Other type-approval authorities, technical services, the Commission and recognised third parties may perform parts of the in-service conformity checks in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Such checks shall be performed in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2022/163 (15) and Annex II to this Regulation. 6. The granting type-approval authority shall take the decision on whether a family failed the provisions of in-service conformity, following a compliance assessment in accordance with paragraph 6 of Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 83 and approve the plan of remedial measures presented by the manufacturer in accordance with paragraph 7 of Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 83. 7. If a type-approval authority, technical service, the Commission or a recognised third party has established that an in-service conformity family fails the in-service conformity check, it shall notify without delay the granting type-approval authority, in accordance with Article 54(2) of Regulation (EU) 2018/858. Following that notification and subject to the application of Article 54(5) of Regulation (EU) 2018/858, the granting type-approval authority shall inform the manufacturer that an in-service conformity family failed the in-service conformity checks. The procedures laid out in paragraphs 6 and 7 of Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 83, as amended by Annex II to this Regulation, shall be followed by the manufacturer and the granting type-approval authority and the manufacturer shall establish a plan of remedial measures and submit it to the granting type approval authority. If the granting type-approval authority establishes that no agreement can be reached with a type-approval authority that has established that an in-service conformity family fails the in-service conformity check, the procedure pursuant to Article 54(5) of Regulation (EU) 2018/858 shall be initiated. 8. In addition to paragraphs 1 to 7, the following shall apply to type-approved vehicles in accordance with Annex II: (a) vehicles submitted to multi-stage type-approval, as defined in Article 3(8) of Regulation (EU) 2018/858, shall be checked for in-service conformity in accordance with the provisions for multistage approval set out in point 3.11 of Annex II to this Regulation; (b) hearses as specified in Appendix 1 of Part III of Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2018/858, armoured vehicles as specified in Appendix 2 of Part III of Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2018/858 and wheelchair accessible vehicles as specified in Appendix 3 of Part III of Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2018/858 shall not be subject to the provisions of this Article. All other special purpose vehicles as specified in Appendix 4 of Part III of Annex II to Regulation (EU) 2018/858, shall be checked for in-service conformity in accordance with the rules for multistage type-approvals set out in Annex II to this Regulation.
Article 14 - Manipulation devices and manipulation strategies
1.

In order to receive an emission type-approval and comply with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 and this Regulation, the manufacturer shall comply with Annex IV to this Regulation on tests, methods and procedures to establish the absence of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies. 2. The manufacturer shall produce all relevant documentation to technically justify the absence of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies under Article 4(5) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 in accordance with the specifications set out in Annex IV to this Regulation. 3. The tests, methods and procedures under paragraph 1 include the roles and responsibilities assigned to vehicle manufacturers, type-approval authorities, market surveillance authorities and other actors that shall ensure the absence of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies and are specified in Annex IV.
ANTI-TAMPERING, SECURITY AND CYBERSECURITY
ANNEX XIV
ANTI-TAMPERING, SECURITY AND CYBERSECURITY
1. INTRODUCTION
This Annex lays down measures regarding the type-approval of anti-tampering, security and cybersecurity systems.

3. REQUIREMENTS FOR TYPE-APPROVAL
3.1. Responsibilities of manufacturers
It is the responsibility of the manufacturer that the vehicle type (with regard to emissions) is equipped with sufficient anti-tampering, security and cybersecurity measures to make it resistant against tampering, cybersecurity and security threats arising in all phases of its life-cycle. To fulfil this responsibility, the vulnerabilities that may lead to tampering shall be minimised to the fullest extent possible, based on the best available knowledge at the time of type-approval, for all systems listed in Article 4(7) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. This shall be deemed to be complied with when: (a) the vehicle type with regard to emissions satisfies the requirements of UN Regulation No 155; and
(b) the manufacturer's vulnerability/threat analysis and risk assessment consider, where applicable, the aims of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 and in particular: (i) for fuel and reagent injection system, engine and engine control units and pollution control systems, the manufacturer's vulnerability/threat analysis and risk assessment considers at least the high-level vulnerabilities/threats, examples of vulnerabilities or attack methods, and examples of mitigations of Table 4.1 of Appendix 1 to this Annex; (ii) for the OBM system, OBD system and OBFCM device the manufacturer's vulnerability/threat analysis and risk assessment considers at least the high-level vulnerabilities/threats, examples of vulnerability or attack method, and examples of mitigations of Table 4.2 of Appendix 1 to this Annex; (iii) for the odometer, the total distance indicated and total distance values are protected according to UN Regulation No 39 (2) as amended by the 02 series of amendments; (iv) for traction batteries and related management systems, electric motor and related control units and environmental vehicle passport, the manufacturer's vulnerability/threat analysis and risk assessment considers at least the high-level vulnerabilities/threats, examples of vulnerabilities or attack methods, and examples of mitigations of Table 4.3 of Appendix 1 to this Annex. Without prejudice to requirements of paragraph 7.2.2.2(g) of UN Regulation No 155, the manufacturer shall monitor for, detect, respond to and inform the approval authority on evidences of successful attacks on any of the systems listed in Article 4(7) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. 3.2. Responsibilities of approval authorities
Without prejudice to the requirements of paragraph 5.1.1 of UN Regulation No 155, type-approval authorities shall verify whether the vulnerability/threat analysis and risk assessment conducted by the manufacturer is appropriate and sufficient. This verification shall ensure that the vulnerabilities and threats of the tables in Appendix 1 have been appropriately managed by the manufacturer. The examples in these tables shall be used as reference. The type-approval authority may require additional documentation to verify that the proposed mitigation actions are correctly implemented. Type-approval authorities are encouraged to exchange best practices and experiences within the framework of the Forum for Exchange of Information on Enforcement as established in Regulation (EU) 2018/858. 3.3. Responsibilities of market surveillance authorities
Following the requirements in Article 8 to Regulation (EU) 2018/858 (3), the market surveillance authorities shall carry out regular tests to verify whether anti-tampering, security and cybersecurity measures are sufficient. Market surveillance authorities shall be responsible for vehicle selection, application of testing methods, follow-up activities, reporting and corrective or restrictive measures. 3.3.1. Vehicle selection for market surveillance
When carrying out market surveillance tests, the market surveillance authorities shall select the vehicle types with regards to emissions to be tested based on a risk assessment. Vehicle types (with regards to emissions) deemed to pose a greater risk according to the risk assessment shall be prioritised for testing according to paragraph 3.3.2. The risk assessment shall consider the following aspects: (a) Evidence that effective tampering products are widely available on the market for use on certain vehicle types with regard to emissions; (b) Evidence of known vulnerabilities affecting certain vehicle types with regard to emissions; (c) Evidence about the prevalence of tampering for certain vehicle types with regard to emissions (including, among others, OBM data submitted by vehicle manufacturers); (d) The number of vehicles in circulation belonging to certain vehicle types with regards to emissions; (e) Other relevant information, including test results of recognised third parties and information exchanged in the Forum for Exchange of Information on Enforcement, as established in Regulation (EU) 2018/858. 3.3.2. Testing methods
Market surveillance authorities may employ any test method to establish whether vehicles belonging to a certain vehicle type with regard to emissions are sufficiently protected against attacks which could affect the proper operation of systems listed in Article 4(7) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. Market surveillance authorities are encouraged to exchange best practices and experiences within the framework of the Forum for Exchange of Information on Enforcement as established in Regulation (EU) 2018/858. The good state of each test vehicle shall be verified before conducting the tests, ensuring in particular the proper operation of systems listed in Article 4(7) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 and that they have not been subject to attacks in the scope of the tests. The verification shall ensure that no relevant fault code is stored nor any relevant warning light is on, that none of the pollutant monitoring statuses is in 'Error' and that the tampering detection level as set out in Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1707 reported by the OBM is 'Level 0'. This verification shall also include, where appropriate, the performance of an ex ante Type 1 or RDE test according to this Regulation. The attack test shall not proceed unless the emission results of the ex ante test fulfil the applicable emission limits. The tests conducted by market surveillance authorities shall aim to reproduce the attacks likely to be experienced by certain vehicle types with regard to emissions in the field due to a high benefit-cost ratio. These may include attempts to tamper with vehicles by exploiting existing tampering, security and cybersecurity vulnerabilities, or by installing tampering products that are available on the market. The selection of attacks shall be based on the risk assessment described in paragraph 3.3.1.
3.3.3. Test evaluation
The market surveillance authority shall determine the outcome of the test by evaluating the effects of the attack on exhaust emissions or on the integrity of the data used by the systems listed in Article 4(7) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, taking account of the response of the vehicle to the attacks. The authority shall come to a 'pass', 'follow-up' or 'fail' decision on one or both aspects, as appropriate according to the nature of the attack. A 'pass' outcome requires no further action. A 'follow-up' outcome shall be followed by the activities described in paragraph 3.3.4.
A 'fail' outcome shall be followed by the activities described in paragraph 3.3.5. Following the attack, the market surveillance authority may condition the vehicle by driving it over a certain distance, over multiple trips, or in other conditions that are deemed appropriate for the attack to be detected.
recital 8
(8) In order to comply with the obligation provided for in Article 14(7) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 that for vehicle types of categories M1 and N1, the methods for measuring pollutant exhaust emissions and evaporative emissions are to reflect those laid down in Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/1151 (9), the relevant methods, requirements and procedures should be specified in accordance with that requirement, notably for the Type 1 test, Type 3 test, Type 4 test, Type 5 test, Type 6 test and OBD requirements.
recital 9
(9) The use of manipulation devices or manipulation strategies is prohibited under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257.

Ensuring an effective implementation and enforcement of such prohibition is essential to safeguard the objectives of that Regulation. Specific methods, procedures, administrative procedures, reporting and documentation obligations should therefore be set out for establishing the absence of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies related to exhaust and evaporative emissions.
Article 6 - Application for emission type-approval of a vehicle
1.

The manufacturer shall submit to the approval authority an application for emission type-approval of a vehicle under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. The application referred to in paragraph 1 shall be drawn up in accordance with the model of the information document set out in Appendix 3 to Annex I. 2. In addition, the manufacturer shall submit to the granting type-approval authority the following information: 3. In the case of vehicles equipped with positive-ignition engines, a declaration by the manufacturer of the minimum percentage of misfires out of a total number of firing events that would either result in emissions exceeding the OBD thresholds laid out in Table 4A of paragraph 6.8.2 of UN Regulation No 154, if that percentage had been present from the start of a type 1 test as chosen for the demonstration in accordance with Annex C5 to UN Regulation No 154, or could lead to an exhaust catalyst or catalysts overheating prior to causing irreversible damage; (a) a description of the malfunction indicator used by the OBD system to signal the presence of a fault to a driver of the vehicle; (b) a declaration by the manufacturer that the OBD system complies with the OBD requirements laid down in Annex XI; (c) a description of the measures taken to prevent tampering with and modification of the emission control systems, complying with Annex XIV and including the emission control computer and odometer including the recording of lifetime values for the purposes of the requirements of Annexes XI and XVI; (d) if applicable, the particulars of the vehicle family as referred to in paragraph 6.8.1 of UN Regulation No 154; (e) where appropriate, copies of other type-approvals with the relevant data to enable extension of approvals. 4. For the purposes of paragraph 3, point (d), the measures taken to prevent tampering with and modification of the emission control computer shall include the facility for updating using a manufacturer-approved programme or calibration. 5. For the tests specified in Figure I.2.3 of Annex I, the manufacturer shall submit to the technical service responsible for the emission type-approval tests a vehicle representative of the type to be approved. 6. The application for emission type-approval of mono fuel, bi-fuel and flex- fuel vehicles shall comply with the additional requirements laid down in Sections 1.1 and 1.2 of Annex I. 7. Changes to the make of a system, component or separate technical unit that occur after a type-approval shall not automatically invalidate the type-approval, unless its original characteristics or technical parameters are changed in such a way that the functionality of the engine or pollution control system and the resulting emissions are affected. 8. The manufacturer shall provide the granting type-approval authority a package on testing transparency in the format specified in Table A4/2 of paragraph 5.9 of Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 83 and in Tables 1 and 2 of Appendix 5 of Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 83 as amended by Annex II to this Regulation. 9. The manufacturer shall upload all the in-service conformity related data required under Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 83 and Annex II to this Regulation into the electronic platform for ISC for vehicles covered by the emission type-approval.
recital 13
(13) In order to provide approval authorities, market surveillance authorities and registration authorities of the Member States and the manufacturers with sufficient time to implement this Regulation regarding Certificate of Conformity, the date of application of Annex XVIII should be deferred.
EMISSION TYPE-APPROVAL OF REPLACEMENT POLLUTION CONTROL DEVICES AS SEPARATE TECHNICAL UNIT
ANNEX XIII
EMISSION TYPE-APPROVAL OF REPLACEMENT POLLUTION CONTROL DEVICES AS SEPARATE TECHNICAL UNIT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. This Annex contains additional requirement for the type-approval as separate technical units of pollution control devices.

2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
2.1. Marking
Original replacement pollution control devices shall bear at least the following identifications: (a) the vehicle manufacturer's name or trade mark; (b) the make and identifying part number of the original replacement pollution control device as recorded in the information mentioned in point 2.3. 
2.2. Documentation
Original replacement pollution control devices shall be accompanied by the following information: (a) the vehicle manufacturer's name or trade mark; (b) the make and identifying part number of the original replacement pollution control device as recorded in the information mentioned in point 2.3; (c) the vehicles for which the original replacement pollution control device is of a type covered by point 2.3 of the Addendum to Appendix 4 to Annex I, including, where applicable, a marking to identify if the original replacement pollution control device is suitable for fitting to a vehicle that is equipped with an on-board diagnostic (OBD) system; (d) installation instructions, where necessary. This information shall be available in the product catalogue distributed to points of sale by the vehicle manufacturer. 2.3. The vehicle manufacturer shall provide to the technical service and/or approval authority the necessary information in electronic format which makes the link between the relevant part numbers and the type-approval documentation. This information shall contain the following: (a) make(s) and type(s) of vehicle,
(b) make(s) and type(s) of original replacement pollution control device,
(c) part number(s) of original replacement pollution control device,
(d) type-approval number of the relevant vehicle type(s) with regard to emissions. 3. EU SEPARATE TECHNICAL UNIT TYPE-APPROVAL MARK
3.1. Every replacement pollution control device conforming to the type approved under this Regulation as a separate technical unit shall bear an EU type-approval mark. 3.2. This mark shall consist of a rectangle surrounding the lower-case letter 'e' followed by the distinguishing number of the Member State which has granted the EU type-approval in accordance with the numbering system set out in Regulation (EU) 2020/683. The EU type-approval mark shall also include in the vicinity of the rectangle the 'base approval number' contained in section 4 of the type-approval number referred to in Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2020/683, preceded by the two figures indicating the sequence number assigned to the latest major technical amendment to this Regulation on the date EU type-approval for a separate technical unit was granted. For this Regulation, the sequence number is 00. 3.3. The EU type-approval mark shall be affixed to the replacement pollution control device in such a way as to be clearly legible and indelible. It shall, wherever possible, be visible when the replacement pollution control device is installed on the vehicle. 3.4. Appendix 3 to this Annex gives an example of the EU type-approval mark. 4. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
4.1. The requirements for the type-approval of replacement pollution control devices shall be those of Section 5 of UN Regulation No 103 with the exceptions set out in sections 4.1.1 to 4.1.4. 
4.1.1. Reference to the 'test cycle' in Section 5 of UN Regulation No 103 shall be understood as being the same Type 1 test and Type 1 test cycle as used for the original type-approval of the vehicle. 4.1.2. The terms 'catalytic converter' and 'converter' used in section 5 of UN Regulation No 103 shall be understood to mean 'pollution control device'. 4.1.3. The regulated pollutants referred to throughout section 5.2.3 of UN Regulation No 103 shall be replaced by all the pollutants specified in Annex 1, Table 1 of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 for replacement pollution control devices intended to be fitted to vehicles type approved to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. 4.1.4. For replacement pollution control devices intended to be fitted to vehicles type approved to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, the durability requirements and associated deterioration factors specified in section 5 of UN Regulation No 103, shall refer to those specified in Annex VII to this Regulation. 4.2. For vehicles with positive-ignition engines, if the NMHC emissions measured during the demonstration test of a new original equipment catalytic converter, under paragraph 5.2.1 of UN Regulation No 103, are higher than the values measured during the type-approval of the vehicle, the difference shall be added to the OBD thresholds. The OBD thresholds are specified in Table 4A of paragraph 6.8.2 of UN Regulation No 154. 4.3. The revised OBD thresholds will apply during the tests of OBD compatibility set out in paragraphs 5.5 to 5.5.5 of UN/ECE Regulation No 103. In particular, when the exceedance allowed in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to Annex C5 to UN Regulation No 154 is applied. 4.4. Requirements for replacement periodically regenerating systems
4.4.1. Requirements regarding emissions
4.4.1.1. The vehicle(s) indicated in Articles 13(3), (4) and (5), equipped with a replacement periodically regenerating system of the type for which approval is requested, shall be subject to the tests described in Appendix 1 to Annex B6 to UN Regulation No 154, in order to compare its performance with the same vehicle equipped with the original periodically regenerating system. 4.4.1.2. Reference to the 'Type 1 test' and 'Type 1 test cycle' in Appendix 1 to Annex B6 to UN Regulation No 154 and the 'test cycle' in Section 5 of UN Regulation No 103 shall be understood as being the same Type 1 test and Type 1 test cycle as used for the original type-approval of the vehicle. 4.4.2. Determination of the basis for comparison
4.4.2.1. The vehicle shall be fitted with a new original periodically regenerating system. The emissions performance of this system shall be determined following the test procedure set out in Appendix 1 to Annex B6 to UN Regulation No 154. 4.4.2.1.1. Reference to the 'Type 1 test' and 'Type 1 test cycle' in Appendix 1 to Annex B6 to UN Regulation No 154 and the 'test cycle' in Section 5 of UN Regulation No 103 shall be understood as being the same Type 1 test and Type 1 test cycle as used for the original type-approval of the vehicle. 4.4.2.2. Upon request of the applicant for the approval of the replacement component, the approval authority shall make available on a non- discriminatory basis, the information referred to in point 3.2.12.2.10.2 of the information document contained in Annex A1 of UN Regulation No 154 for each vehicle tested. 4.4.3. Exhaust gas test with a replacement periodically regeneration system
4.4.3.1. The original equipment periodically regenerating system of the test vehicle(s) shall be replaced by the replacement periodically regenerating system. The emissions performance of this system shall be determined following the test procedure set out in Appendix 1 to Annex B6 to UN Regulation No 154. 4.4.3.1.1. Reference to the 'Type 1 test' and 'Type 1 test cycle' in Appendix 1 to Annex B6 to UN Regulation No 154 and the 'test cycle' in Section 5 of UN Regulation No 103 shall be understood as being the same Type 1 test and Type 1 test cycle as used for the original type-approval of the vehicle. 4.4.3.2. To determine the D-factor of the replacement periodically regenerating system, any of the engine test bench methods referred to in Appendix 1 to Annex B6 to UN Regulation No 154 may be used. 4.4.4. Other requirements
The requirements provided in paragraphs 5.2.3, 5.3, 5.4 and 5.5 of UN Regulation No 103 shall apply to replacement periodically regenerating systems.
MEASUREMENTS OF NET POWER AND THE MAXIMUM 30 MINUTES POWER OF ELECTRIC DRIVE TRAINS
ANNEX XX
MEASUREMENTS OF NET POWER AND THE MAXIMUM 30 MINUTES POWER OF ELECTRIC DRIVE TRAINS
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. This Annex sets out requirements for measuring: (a) net engine power;

(b) net power and the maximum 30 minutes power of electric drive trains. 1.2. The latter in case of electric drive trains composed of controllers and motors, which are used as the sole mode of propulsion, at least for part of the time. 2. GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS
2.1. The general specifications for conducting the tests and interpreting the results are those set out in paragraph 5 of UN Regulation No 85, with the exceptions specified in this Annex. 2.2. Test fuel
2.2.1. Paragraphs 5.2.3.1, 5.2.3.2.1, 5.2.3.3.1, and 5.2.3.4 of UN Regulation No 85 shall be understood as follows: 2.2.2. The fuel used shall be the one available on the market. In any case of dispute, the fuel shall be the appropriate reference fuel specified in Annex IX to this Regulation. 2.3. Power correction factors
2.3.1. By way of derogation from paragraph 5.1 of Annex 5 to UN Regulation No 85, when a turbo-charged engine is fitted with a system which allows compensating the ambient conditions temperature and altitude, at the request of the manufacturer, the correction factors αa or αd shall be set to the value of 1.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS FOR EMISSION TYPE-APPROVAL
ANNEX I
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS FOR EMISSION TYPE-APPROVAL
1. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR GRANTING OF EMISSION TYPE-APPROVAL
1.1. Additional requirements for mono fuel gas vehicles, and bi-fuel gas vehicles. 1.1.1. The additional requirements for granting of type-approval for monofuel gas vehicles, and bi-fuel gas vehicles shall be those set out in paragraph 5.9 of UN Regulation No 154 (1). The reference to the information document in paragraph 5.9.1 of UN Regulation No 154 shall be understood as being reference to Appendix 3 of Annex I to this Regulation. 1.2. Additional requirements for flex fuel vehicles
The additional requirements for granting of type-approval for flex fuel vehicles shall be those set out in paragraph 5.8 of UN Regulation No 154. 2. ADDITIONAL TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS AND TESTS
2.1. Inlets to fuel tanks
2.1.1. The requirements for inlets to fuel tanks shall be those specified in paragraphs 6.1.5 and 6.1.6 of UN Regulation No 154. 2.2. Application of tests
2.2.1. Figure I.2.3 illustrates the application of the tests for emission type-approval of a vehicle. The specific test procedures are described in Annexes II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, X, XI, XIV, XVI, XX, XXI and XXII.

| Vehicle category | Vehicles with positive ignition engines including hybrids | Vehicles with positive ignition engines including hybrids | Vehicles with positive ignition engines including hybrids | Vehicles with positive ignition engines including hybrids | Vehicles with positive ignition engines including hybrids | Vehicles with positive ignition engines including hybrids | Vehicles with positive ignition engines including hybrids | Vehicles with positive ignition engines including hybrids | Vehicles with compression ignition engines including hybrids | Vehicles with compression ignition engines including hybrids | Pure electric vehicles | Hydrogen fuel cell vehicles |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|  | Mono fuel | Mono fuel | Mono fuel | Mono fuel | Bi-fuel (4) | Bi-fuel (4) | Bi-fuel (4) | Flex-fuel (4) | Mono fuel | Mono fuel |  |  |
| Reference fuel | Petrol | LPG | NG/ Biome- thane | Hydro- gen (ICE) | Petrol | Petrol | Petrol | Petrol | Diesel | Petrol | — | Hydrogen (Fuel Cell) |
| Reference fuel | Petrol | LPG | NG/ Biome- thane | Hydro- gen (ICE) | LPG | NG/Biome- thane | Hydrogen (ICE) (5) | Ethanol (E85) | Diesel | Petrol | — | Hydrogen (Fuel Cell) |
| Type 1 test (8) | Yes | Yes (6) | Yes (6) | Yes (5) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes | Yes | — | — |
| ATCT test (2) (at 14 °C) | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes (5) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes | Yes | — | — |
| RDE test, gaseous pollutants | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes (5) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes | Yes | — | — |
| RDE test, PN | Yes | — | — | — | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes | Yes | — | — |
| Crankcase emissions (2) (Type 3 test) | Yes | Yes | Yes | — | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | — | — | — | — |
| Evaporative emissions (Type 4 test) | Yes | — | — | — | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | — | Yes | — | — |
| Durability (2) (Type 5 test) | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | Yes | Yes | — | — |
| Low temperature emissions (Type 6 test) | Yes | — | — | — | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (petrol only) | Yes (both fuels) | — | — | — | — |
| In-service conformity | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes (as at type-approval) | Yes (as at type-approval) | Yes (as at type-approval) | Yes (as at type-approval) | Yes | Yes | — | — |
| OBD (2) | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | — | — |
| Engine power | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| CO2 emissions, fuel consumption, electric energy consumption and electric range | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes (3) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes (petrol), Yes (3) (hydrogen) | Yes (both fuels) | Yes | Yes | Yes | Yes (7) |
| OBFCM | Yes | — | — | — | — | — | — | Yes (both fuels) | Yes | Yes | — | — |

3. EXTENSIONS TO EMISSION TYPE-APPROVALS
3.1. Extensions for tailpipe emissions (type 1 and OBFCM)
3.1.1. The type-approval shall be extended to vehicles if they conform to the requirements of paragraph 7.4 of UN Regulation No 154. The pollutant emissions shall respect the limits set out in Table 1 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. 3.2. Extensions for evaporative emissions (type 4 test)
3.2.1. For tests performed in accordance with Annex VI the type-approval shall be extended to vehicles belonging to an approved evaporative emission family as defined in paragraph 6.6.3 of UN Regulation No 154. 3.3. Extensions for low temperature test (type 6 test)
3.3.1. The type-approval shall be extended to vehicles if they conform to the requirements of paragraph 7.2 of UN Regulation No 83 (9). 4. CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION
4.1. Introduction
4.1.1. Every vehicle produced under a type-approval according to this Regulation shall be so manufactured as to conform to the type-approval requirements of this Regulation. The manufacturer shall implement adequate arrangements and documented control plans and carry-out at specified intervals as given in this regulation the necessary emission and OBFCM tests to verify continued conformity with the approved type. The approval authority shall verify and agree with these arrangements and control plans of the manufacturer and perform audits and conduct emission and OBFCM tests at specific intervals, as given in this regulation, at the premises of the manufacturer, including production and test facilities as part of the product conformity and continued verification arrangements as described in Annex IV of Regulation (EU) 2018/858. 4.1.2. The manufacturer shall check the conformity of production by testing the emissions of pollutants (given in Table 1 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257), the emission of CO2 (along with the measurement of electric energy consumption and, where applicable, the monitoring of the OBFCM device accuracy), the crankcase emissions and evaporative emissions in accordance with the test procedures described in Annexes V, VI, XXI and XXII. The verification shall therefore include the tests of types 1, 3, 4 and the tests for OBFCM, as described in Section 2.2. The approval authority shall keep record for a period of at least 5 years of all the documentation related to the conformity of production test results and shall make it available to the Commission upon request. The specific procedures for conformity of production are set out in paragraphs 8 and 9 and Appendices 1 to 5 of UN Regulation No 154. The calculation of values required for checking the Conformity of Production of electric energy consumption of PEVs and OVC-HEVs is set out in Appendix 8 of Annex B8 to UN Regulation No 154. 4.1.3. In case of non-conformity Article 51 of Regulation (EU) 2018/858 shall apply. 4.2. Vehicles fitted with eco-innovations
4.2.1. In the case of a vehicle type with regard to emissions fitted with one or more eco-innovations, within the meaning of Article 11 of Regulation (EU) 2019/631 (10) for M1 or for N1 vehicles, the conformity of production shall be demonstrated with respect to the eco-innovations, by checking the presence of the correct eco-innovation(s) in question. 4.3. Checking the conformity of the vehicle for a Type 3 test
If a verification of the Type 3 test is to be carried out, it shall be conducted in accordance with the following requirements:
ANNEX XVII
ANNEX XVII
(reserved)
Article 3 - Requirements for emission type-approval
1.

In order to receive an emission type-approval under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, the manufacturer shall demonstrate that the vehicles comply with the requirements of this Regulation when tested in accordance with the test procedures specified in Annexes III to VIII, X, XI, XIV, XVI, XX, XXI and XXII. The manufacturer shall also ensure that the reference fuels comply with the specifications set out in Annex IX. 2. Manufacturers shall ensure that the vehicles are subject to the tests specified in Figure I.2.3 of Annex I when applying the procedures in paragraph 1. In all references to UN Regulation No 154, only the Union related requirements characterised by level 1A shall apply. References to UN Regulation No 154 'criteria emissions' shall be understood as references to 'pollutant emissions' in this Regulation. 3. In order to receive an emission type-approval in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, the manufacturer shall also perform the tests for fuel consumption and CO2 emissions set out in Annex XXI and in Annex XII, where applicable. The granting type-approval authority shall ensure that the type-approval test data are recorded for each Type 1 test and uploaded to the dedicated Commission server in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EU) 2021/392 (14). 4. Specific requirements for inlets to fuel tanks are laid down in Section 2.1 of Annex I. 5. The manufacturer shall ensure that the emissions test results comply with the applicable limit values set out in Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 under the specified test conditions of this Regulation. 6. Mono-fuel gas vehicles shall be tested in the Type 1 test for variation in the composition of LPG or NG/biomethane, as set out in Annex B6 to UN Regulation No 154 for pollutant emissions, with the fuel used for the measurement of the net power in accordance with Annex XX to this Regulation. Bi-fuel gas vehicles shall be tested with petrol and either LPG or NG/biomethane. The tests on LPG or NG/biomethane shall be performed for variation in the composition of LPG or NG/biomethane, as set out in Annex B6 to UN Regulation No 154 for pollutant emissions, and with the fuel used for the measurement of the net power in accordance with Annex XX to this Regulation. 7. The manufacturer shall ensure that for the Type 3 test set out in Annex V, the engine's ventilation system does not permit the emission of any crankcase gases into the atmosphere. 8. The Type 6 test measuring emissions at low temperatures set out in Annex VIII shall not apply to diesel vehicles. However, the manufacturer shall provide the approval authority with information on the operating strategy of the exhaust gas recirculation system ('EGR'), including its functioning at low temperatures.Such information shall also include a description of any effects on emissions. At the request of the Commission, the approval authority shall provide information on the performance of NOx after-treatment devices and EGR system at low temperatures. 9. For a vehicle that is type-approved in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, the manufacturer shall ensure that, throughout the lifetime of a vehicle as specified in Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, the final RDE results of that vehicle as determined in accordance with UN Regulation No 168 as amended by Annex III and emitted at an RDE test performed in accordance with that Annex, do not exceed the relevant values set out in Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 or if applicable the 'Declared Maximum RDE values' according to Annex III. 10. The requirements of Annex III shall not apply to emission type-approval granted to ultra-small-volume manufacturers under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257.
Article 8 - Amendments to emission type-approvals
Articles 27, 33 and 34 of Regulation 2018/858 shall apply to any extensions to the emission type-approvals granted under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257.

At the manufacturer's request the provisions for extensions to emission type-approvals specified in Section 3 of Annex I shall apply without the need for additional testing only to vehicles of the same type.
recital 1
(1) Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 requires new types of vehicles of categories M1 and N1 and components, systems and separate technical units intended for vehicles of categories M1 or N1 to comply with emission limits and new emission provisions from 29 November 2026 and for new vehicles of categories M1 and N1 and components, systems and separate technical units for those vehicles, from 29 November 2027, with the exception of vehicles of categories M1 and N1 constructed by small-volume manufacturers for which the requirements shall apply as from 1 July 2030.

The specific technical provisions necessary to implement Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 should be adopted. Therefore, this Regulation aims at setting the requirements necessary for the Emission type-approval of vehicles that are to be designated as 'Euro 7' vehicles, 'Euro 7G' vehicles, 'Euro 7ext' vehicles or 'Euro 7Gext' vehicles in accordance with Articles 4 and 5 of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257.
recital 7
(7) In order to ensure that the required type-approval information is consistently presented and for effective implementation as well as increased transparency, the emission type-approval certificate numbering system should be adapted to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 requirements for applicable tests and procedures, ensuring a harmonised presentation.

Templates for type-approval certificates and templates for certificates of conformity should be adapted where necessary and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/683 (8) should be amended accordingly.
recital 14
(14) Whenever the measures provided for in this Regulation entail the processing of personal data, that processing should be carried out in accordance with Regulations (EU) 2016/679 (10) and (EU) 2018/1725 (11) of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as the relevant national law in accordance with those Regulations.
Introduction
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 April 2024 on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, with respect to their emissions and battery durability (Euro 7), amending Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulations (EC) No 715/2007 and (EC) No 595/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Commission Regulation (EU) No 582/2011, Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/1151, Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/2400 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/1362 (1), and in particular Articles 14(3), point (a), and 14(4), points (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (j), (l), (m), (n), (o), (p), (q), (r), (s), (u) and (v), thereof,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on the approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, amending Regulations (EC) No 715/2007 and (EC) No 595/2009 and repealing Directive 2007/46/EC (2), and in particular Articles 28(3), 30(3), 36(4), 37(8) and 38(3) thereof,
Whereas:

(1) Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 requires new types of vehicles of categories M1 and N1 and components, systems and separate technical units intended for vehicles of categories M1 or N1 to comply with emission limits and new emission provisions from 29 November 2026 and for new vehicles of categories M1 and N1 and components, systems and separate technical units for those vehicles, from 29 November 2027, with the exception of vehicles of categories M1 and N1 constructed by small-volume manufacturers for which the requirements shall apply as from 1 July 2030. The specific technical provisions necessary to implement Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 should be adopted. Therefore, this Regulation aims at setting the requirements necessary for the Emission type-approval of vehicles that are to be designated as 'Euro 7' vehicles, 'Euro 7G' vehicles, 'Euro 7ext' vehicles or 'Euro 7Gext' vehicles in accordance with Articles 4 and 5 of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. (2) Simplification is achieved by establishing the testing procedures, methodologies and procedures, tests and checks, in accordance with the requirements specified in Annex V to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 and eliminating tests which are no longer relevant and replacing certification tests with declarations by the vehicle manufacturer, by referring to UN Regulations where applicable, and by ensuring a consistent set of procedures and tests for the various phases of the emission type-approval. (3) UN Regulations (3), notably UN Regulation No 154 (4), UN Regulation No 168 (5) and UN Regulation No 83 (6) are referred to in this Regulation only in the context of emission type-approval for light-duty vehicles that is covered by Article 14(8)(a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. Testing procedures, methodologies and procedures, tests and checks that are included in the above-mentioned UN Regulations and relate to M2 and N2 vehicles shall be adopted subsequently under Article 14(9)(a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. (4) In order to integrate internationally harmonised technical rules into the emission type-approval system, references should be made to UN Regulation No 154 in accordance with the requirements set out in Table 1 of Annex III to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 regarding test conditions and administrative provisions that apply to emissions type-approval under laboratory exhaust emission measurement, but also for Model Information Document, Model of Emission Type-Approval certificate and test report ensuring that emission type-approval specificities are set out. References should be made to UN Regulation No 168 in accordance with requirements set out in Table 1 of Annex III to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 regarding test conditions and administrative provisions that apply to Emissions type-approval under Real Driving Emission (RDE), adding requirements that comply with specific provisions of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 regarding exhaust PN10 emissions. Where appropriate, reference should also be made to UN Regulation No 83 regarding the measurement of crankcase gases, the emissions at low ambient temperature and the in-service conformity methodology. Additionally, UN Regulation No 155 (7) should be referred to for cybersecurity measures and to ensure the secure transmission of data related to emissions. (5) In order to reflect the average expected lifetime of vehicles in the Union, the tests, methods and procedures should include specific requirements to comply with the durability requirements of vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, more particularly under Annex IV thereto. (6) Effective implementation is ensured by setting out roles and responsibilities of respectively manufacturers, Member States type-approval authorities and national authorities, and recognised third parties in accordance with Annex V to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 for applicable tests and procedures. When required, templates for declaration of compliance shall be made available to manufacturers in accordance with the provisions of Annex V to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, in particular for specific tests applying to (i) crankcase emissions (Type 3 test); (ii) durability of emission control system (Type 5 test); (iii) OBD requirements for the purposes of emission type-approval; (iv) anti-tampering, security and cybersecurity requirements; (v) regeneration; (vi) correct operation of systems using a consumable reagent and pollution control devices; (vii) CO2 ambient temperature correction (ATCT); and (viii) geofencing technologies, where applicable. (7) In order to ensure that the required type-approval information is consistently presented and for effective implementation as well as increased transparency, the emission type-approval certificate numbering system should be adapted to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 requirements for applicable tests and procedures, ensuring a harmonised presentation. Templates for type-approval certificates and templates for certificates of conformity should be adapted where necessary and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/683 (8) should be amended accordingly. (8) In order to comply with the obligation provided for in Article 14(7) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 that for vehicle types of categories M1 and N1, the methods for measuring pollutant exhaust emissions and evaporative emissions are to reflect those laid down in Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/1151 (9), the relevant methods, requirements and procedures should be specified in accordance with that requirement, notably for the Type 1 test, Type 3 test, Type 4 test, Type 5 test, Type 6 test and OBD requirements. (9) The use of manipulation devices or manipulation strategies is prohibited under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. Ensuring an effective implementation and enforcement of such prohibition is essential to safeguard the objectives of that Regulation. Specific methods, procedures, administrative procedures, reporting and documentation obligations should therefore be set out for establishing the absence of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies related to exhaust and evaporative emissions. (10) A robust framework for the prohibition of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies should ensure that the emissions behaviour of vehicles is not altered between compliance testing and real-world driving, and that data on sensors, fuel or electric energy consumption, electric range, and battery durability remains accurate and reliable.
DETERMINATION OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS
ANNEX VI
DETERMINATION OF EVAPORATIVE EMISSIONS
(TYPE 4 TEST)
1. INTRODUCTION
This Annex provides the method to determine the levels of evaporative emission from light-duty vehicles in a repeatable and reproducible manner designed to be representative of real-world vehicle operation.

2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
The general requirements for conducting the type 4 test shall be those set out in paragraph 6.6 of UN Regulation No 154. The limit value shall be that specified in Table 3 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. 3. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
The technical requirements for conducting the type 4 test shall be those set out in Annex C3 to UN Regulation No 154.
VERIFYING THE AVERAGE EMISSIONS AT LOW AMBIENT TEMPERATURES
ANNEX VIII
VERIFYING THE AVERAGE EMISSIONS AT LOW AMBIENT TEMPERATURES
(TYPE 6 TEST)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. This Annex describes the equipment required and the procedure for the Type 6 test in order to verify the emissions at low ambient temperatures.

2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
2.1. The general requirements for the Type 6 test are those set out in section 5.3.5 of UN Regulation No 83. 3. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
3.1. The technical requirements and specifications are those set out in sections 2 to 6 of Annex 8 to UN Regulation No 83.
DEVICES FOR MONITORING ON BOARD THE VEHICLE, THE CONSUMPTION OF FUEL AND ELECTRIC ENERGY
ANNEX XXII
DEVICES FOR MONITORING ON BOARD THE VEHICLE, THE CONSUMPTION OF FUEL AND ELECTRIC ENERGY
1. INTRODUCTION
This Annex sets out the definitions and requirements applicable to the devices for monitoring on board the vehicle the consumption of fuel and/or electric energy.

2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
The general requirements for OBFCM devices shall be those set out in paragraph 6.3.9 of UN Regulation No 154. 3. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
The technical requirements for the OBFCM device shall be those set out in Appendix 5 to UN Regulation No 154.
Article 2 - Definitions
For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply:

(1) 'vehicle type with regard to emissions' means a group of vehicles which: (a) do not differ with respect to the criteria constituting an 'interpolation family' as specified in paragraph 6.3.2 of UN Regulation No 154; (b) fall in a single CO2 interpolation range within the meaning of paragraph 2.3.2 of Annex B6 to UN Regulation No 154 or paragraph 4.5.1 of Annex B8 to UN Regulation No 154; (c) do not differ with respect to any characteristics that have a non-negligible influence on tailpipe emissions, such as, but not limited to, the following: —
types and sequence of pollution control devices (e.g. three-way catalyst, oxidation catalyst, lean NOx trap, SCR, lean NOx catalyst, particulate trap or combinations thereof in a single unit),
—
exhaust gas recirculation (with or without, internal/external, cooled/non-cooled, low/high/combined pressure); (2) 'periodically regenerating system' means an exhaust emissions control device (e.g. catalytic converter, particulate trap) that requires a periodic regeneration process; (3) 'mono fuel vehicle' means a vehicle that is designed to run primarily on one type of fuel; (4) 'mono fuel gas vehicle' means a mono fuel vehicle that is designed primarily for permanent running on LPG or NG/biomethane or hydrogen, but may also have a petrol system for emergency purposes or starting only, where the nominal capacity of the petrol tank does not exceed 15 litres; (5) 'bi fuel vehicle' means a vehicle with two separate fuel storage systems that is designed to run primarily on only one fuel at a time, however, the simultaneous use of both fuels is permitted in limited amount and duration; (6) 'bi fuel gas vehicle' means a bi fuel vehicle where the two fuels are petrol (petrol mode) and either LPG, NG/biomethane, or hydrogen; (7) 'flex fuel vehicle' means a vehicle with one fuel storage system that can run on different mixtures of two or more fuels; (8) 'flex fuel ethanol vehicle' means a flex fuel vehicle that can run on petrol or a mixture of petrol and ethanol up to an 85 per cent ethanol blend (E85); (9) 'malfunction indicator' or 'MI' means a visible or audible indicator that clearly informs the driver of the vehicle in the event of a malfunction of any emission-related component connected to the OBD system, or of the OBD system itself; (10) 'deficiency' means, in the context of the OBD system, that up to two separate components or systems which are monitored contain temporary or permanent operating characteristics that impair the otherwise efficient OBD monitoring of those components or systems or do not meet all of the other detailed requirements for OBD; (11) 'net power' means the power obtained on a test bench at the end of the crankshaft or its equivalent at the corresponding engine or motor speed with the auxiliaries, tested in accordance with Annex XX, and determined under reference atmospheric conditions; (12) 'rated engine power' (Prated) means the maximum net power of the engine or motor in kW measured in accordance with the requirements of Annex XX; (13) 'maximum 30 minutes power' means the maximum net power of an electric drive train at DC voltage as set out in paragraph 5.3.2 of UN Regulation No 85 (12); (14) 'Portable Emissions Measurement System' or 'PEMS' means a portable emissions measurement system meeting the requirements specified in Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 168 (13); (15) 'permeability factor' or 'PF' means the factor determined on the basis of hydrocarbon losses over a period of time and used to determine the final evaporative emissions; (16) 'Base Emission Strategy' or 'BES' means an emission strategy that is active throughout the speed and load operating range of the vehicle unless an Auxiliary Emission Strategy is activated; (17) 'Auxiliary Emission Strategy' or 'AES' means an emission strategy that becomes active and replaces or modifies a BES for a specific purpose and in response to a specific set of ambient or operating conditions and only remains operational as long as those conditions exist.
Article 13 - Administrative provisions for emission type-approval of replacement pollution control device as a separate technical unit
1.

If the requirements laid down in Annex XIII to this Regulation are met, the type-approval authority shall grant an emission type-approval for replacement pollution control devices as separate technical unit and issue an emission type-approval number in accordance with the numbering system set out in Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2020/683. The approval authority shall not assign the same number to another replacement pollution control device type. The same type-approval number may cover the use of that replacement pollution control device type on a number of different vehicle types. 2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, the approval authority shall issue an emission type-approval certificate established in accordance with the model set out in Appendix 2 to Annex XIII. 3. If the applicant for emission type-approval is able to demonstrate to the approval authority or technical service that the replacement pollution control device is of a type indicated in Section 2.3 of the Addendum to Annex A2 of UN Regulation No 154, the granting of a type-approval shall not depend on verification of compliance with the requirements specified in Section 4 of Annex XIII to this Regulation.
recital 5
(5) In order to reflect the average expected lifetime of vehicles in the Union, the tests, methods and procedures should include specific requirements to comply with the durability requirements of vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, more particularly under Annex IV thereto.
MANIPULATION DEVICES AND MANIPULATION STRATEGIES
ANNEX IV
MANIPULATION DEVICES AND MANIPULATION STRATEGIES
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. This Annex sets out the tests, methods and procedures for establishing the absence of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies as construed under Article 4(5) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 and in accordance with manufacturers' obligations under Article 4 of the same Regulation.

1.2. This Annex also specifies the documentation that ensures the proper monitoring and enforcement of rules related to manipulation devices and manipulation strategies. It aims to strengthen emissions control mechanisms, enhance transparency, and ensure that vehicles comply with regulatory requirements for the lifetime of the vehicles, particularly Euro 7 exhaust emission and evaporative emission limits under the conditions set out in Annex III of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, as well as the prohibition of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies. 1.3. Specifications for methodologies, tests and procedures that relate to data integrity, such as manipulation of data related to sensors, fuel or electric energy consumption, electric range or battery durability, are provided for in Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1707. 1.4. This Annex also sets out roles and responsibilities for the actors involved to ensure compliance with the above-mentioned regulatory requirements and prohibition of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies. 1.5. For the purposes of this Annex, manipulation devices and manipulation strategies should be construed as set out by Article 3(41) and 3(42) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. The notion of manipulation strategy shall be distinguished from respectively the notions of 'Base Emission Strategies (BES)' and 'Auxiliary Emission Strategies (AES)' which are defined in respectively Article 2(17) and 2(18) of this Regulation, and which relate to documentation requirements under this Annex. 2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS - TESTS AND METHODOLOGIES
2.1. Referring to the provisions of Articles 3(41) and 3(42) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, (i) manipulation devices and manipulation strategies related to emissions (exhaust, evaporative or other); and (ii) manipulation devices and manipulation strategies related to data integrity should be distinguished. 2.2. When assessing situations that could involve the use of manipulation devices or manipulation strategies for exhaust and evaporative emissions, a broad assessment and interpretation of those situations should be made. Any devices or strategies that reduce the effectiveness of exhaust and non-exhaust emission limits and testing condition requirements under this Regulation, that cause a non-compliant vehicle to appear compliant or that falsify test results, should be considered when determining whether manipulation devices or manipulation strategies exist. Market surveillance authorities should apply dedicated screening tests and enforcement measures to prevent the circumvention of Euro 7 requirements. 2.3. The assessment of such situations as part of type-approval should distinguish and identify specific situations where the reduction of effectiveness of exhaust and evaporative emission control (1) is justified by technical reasons and is not due to manipulation. This is particularly relevant in driving conditions that are adjacent to one or more boundary conditions of a regulated emissions test. For such situations, manufacturers shall comply with criteria for the declaration of technically justified emission control strategies that are only active for a specific set of ambient or operating conditions, thereby documenting and explaining the reduction of the effectiveness of emission control that may be observed (for instance, the dosing of reagent may stop at very low temperatures due to physical limitations of hardware). These technically justified emission strategies shall satisfy strict criteria to demonstrate that they are acceptable and that therefore they do not constitute a manipulation device or manipulation strategy as defined in Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, without prejudice to the requirements set out in Article 4(2) of the same Regulation. The methodology for the assessment and approval of AES is specified in Appendix 1 to this Annex. 2.4. Manufacturers shall ensure that no vehicle is equipped with manipulation devices or strategies related to data integrity as defined in paragraphs 41 and 42 in Article 3 of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. 2.5. Manufacturers shall not introduce software or calibration updates that manipulate data related to sensors, fuel or electric energy consumption, electric range or battery durability, either before or after the placing in the market. 2.6. Manufacturers shall disclose any software and calibration updates affecting the integrity of data related to sensors, fuel or electric energy consumption, electric range or battery durability to the granting type-approval authority. 3. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS - DOCUMENTATION
3.1. Manufacturers shall document Auxiliary Emission Strategies (AES) at type-approval. The procedure of assessing AES ensures the consistent approval of elements of design or actions, in line with Article 14(7) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. For the type-approval authorities to be able to assess the proper use of AES, considering the prohibition of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies contained in Article 4(5) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, the manufacturer shall provide an extended documentation package, as described in Appendix 1 to this Annex. 3.2. The extended documentation shall remain strictly confidential. It may be kept by the approval authority, or, at the discretion of the approval authority, may be retained by the manufacturer. In the case the manufacturer retains the documentation package, that package shall be identified and dated by the approval authority once reviewed and approved. It shall be made available for inspection by the approval authority at the time of approval or at any time during the validity of the approval. 3.3. Manufacturers shall also provide to the approval authorities a formal documentation package, as described in Appendix 2 to this Annex, containing information on AES/BES that would allow an independent tester to identify if the emissions measured can be attributed to an AES or BES strategy or are potentially due to a manipulation device or manipulation strategy. 3.4. Manufacturers shall make the formal documentation package available to all type-approval authorities, technical services, market surveillance authorities, recognised third parties and the Commission upon request. 3.5. Manufacturers shall introduce an indicator (AES flag or timer) to indicate when a vehicle runs in a mode where an AES that has been documented in the extended documentation package is active instead of BES mode. The indicator shall be available via the serial port of the standard diagnostic connector upon request of a generic scan-tool. The AES that is running shall be identifiable via the formal documentation package. 4. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
4.1. This paragraph sets out roles and responsibilities for the actors involved to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements: —
For vehicle manufacturers: it introduces criteria for the declaration of justified auxiliary emission control strategies that are active for a specific purpose and in response to a specific set of ambient or operating conditions. These emission control strategies shall satisfy strict technical criteria to demonstrate that they do not constitute a manipulation device or manipulation strategy as defined in Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. —
For type-approval authorities: it introduces criteria for the approval of technically justified emission control strategies. The approval of such emission control strategies relies on the concept of 'Auxiliary Emission Strategies' (AES), which is adapted from the Euro 6 legal framework.
citation
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 April 2024 on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, with respect to their emissions and battery durability (Euro 7), amending Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulations (EC) No 715/2007 and (EC) No 595/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Commission Regulation (EU) No 582/2011, Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/1151, Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/2400 and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/1362 (1), and in particular Articles 14(3), point (a), and 14(4), points (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (j), (l), (m), (n), (o), (p), (q), (r), (s), (u) and (v), thereof,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on the approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, amending Regulations (EC) No 715/2007 and (EC) No 595/2009 and repealing Directive 2007/46/EC (2), and in particular Articles 28(3), 30(3), 36(4), 37(8) and 38(3) thereof,
Whereas:
recital 6
(6) Effective implementation is ensured by setting out roles and responsibilities of respectively manufacturers, Member States type-approval authorities and national authorities, and recognised third parties in accordance with Annex V to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 for applicable tests and procedures.

When required, templates for declaration of compliance shall be made available to manufacturers in accordance with the provisions of Annex V to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, in particular for specific tests applying to (i) crankcase emissions (Type 3 test); (ii) durability of emission control system (Type 5 test); (iii) OBD requirements for the purposes of emission type-approval; (iv) anti-tampering, security and cybersecurity requirements; (v) regeneration; (vi) correct operation of systems using a consumable reagent and pollution control devices; (vii) CO2 ambient temperature correction (ATCT); and (viii) geofencing technologies, where applicable.
recital 12
(12) In order to ensure that the required type-approval information is consistently reflected, new examples for the Euro 7 type-approval related certificate numbering system should be introduced.

For effective implementation, such as for registration purposes, the templates for the certificates of conformity should be adapted where necessary. Regulation (EU) 2020/683 should be amended accordingly.
ANNEX XV
ANNEX XV
(reserved)
ON-BOARD DIAGNOSTICS (OBD) FOR MOTOR VEHICLES
ANNEX XI
ON-BOARD DIAGNOSTICS (OBD) FOR MOTOR VEHICLES
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. This Annex sets out the functional aspects of on-board diagnostic (OBD) systems for the control of emissions from motor vehicles
2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
2.1. The requirements for OBD systems set out in paragraph 6.8 of UN Regulation No 154 shall apply for the purposes of this Annex.

2.2. A template for the manufacturer's declaration of compliance with the OBD requirements for the purposes of type-approval is laid down in Appendix 1 of this Annex. 3. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS FOR DEFICIENCIES OF OBD SYSTEMS
3.1. The administrative provisions for deficiencies of OBD systems as set out in Article 7(3) shall be those specified in Section 4 of Annex C5 to UN Regulation No 154 with the following exceptions. 3.2. Reference to 'OBD thresholds' in paragraph 4.2.2. of Annex C5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall be understood as being reference to the OBD thresholds in Table 4A of paragraph 6.8.2 of UN Regulation No 154. 3.3. The second sub-paragraph of paragraph 4.6 of Annex C5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall be understood as being as follows: 'The type-approval authority shall notify its decision in granting a deficiency request in accordance with Article 7(3) of this Regulation.' 4. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
4.1. The definitions, requirements and tests for OBD systems set out in paragraphs 3.10, 4, 5.10, 6.8 and Annex C5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall apply for the purposes of this Annex. The manufacturer's declaration of compliance with the OBD requirements in accordance with section 2.2 of this Annex shall replace the requirements for OBD demonstration tests at the time of type-approval (1). 4.2
References to the target useful life should be understood as references to the additional lifetime, as set out in Table 1 of Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. (1) The manufacturer's declaration of compliance with the OBD requirements in accordance with section 2.2 of this Annex shall replace the requirements for OBD demonstration tests and IUPR reporting requirements as set out in Appendix 1 to Annex C5 of UN Regulation No 154.
VERIFYING THE DURABILITY OF THE EMISSION CONTROL SYSTEMS
ANNEX VII
VERIFYING THE DURABILITY OF THE EMISSION CONTROL SYSTEMS
(TYPE 5 TEST)
1. DECLARATION
1.1. For the purpose of type-approval the manufacturer shall provide the granting approval authority with a signed declaration of compliance with the emission durability requirements of the emission control systems.

The declaration of compliance shall also include the applicable deterioration factors determined in accordance with the procedures given in Annex C4 to UN Regulation No 154 or any other appropriate means at the choice of the manufacturer. A template for the manufacturer's declaration of compliance with the emission durability requirements of the emission control systems is laid down in Appendix 1 of this Annex. 1.2. In the case that a test is requested within the main lifetime or the additional lifetime period for the purpose of in-service conformity or market surveillance checks, this test shall follow the requirements for demonstration of compliance with exhaust emission limits for type-approval. In addition, that test shall follow the usual procedures for in-service conformity and market surveillance testing, such as a vehicle inspection before the test. 1.3. Deterioration factors shall not be applied when the vehicle mileage is above 15 000 km. 1.4. For tests performed in the additional lifetime period, the applicable durability multiplier set out in Table 2 of Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 shall be applied for test evaluation.
VERIFYING EMISSIONS OF CRANKCASE GASES
ANNEX V
VERIFYING EMISSIONS OF CRANKCASE GASES
(TYPE 3 TEST)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. The manufacturer shall ensure that the engine's ventilation system does not permit the emission of any crankcase gases into the atmosphere.

For the purpose of type-approval the manufacturer shall provide the granting approval authority with a signed declaration of compliance as regards the crankcase emissions requirements of vehicles with positive ignition engines. 1.2. A template for the manufacturer's declaration of compliance with the Type 3 requirements is laid down in Appendix 1 of this Annex. 1.3. In the case a granting approval authority requests a demonstration test at type-approval or in case of conformity of production testing, in-service conformity or market surveillance checks this Annex describes the procedure for the type 3 test verifying emissions of crankcase gases as described in section 5.3.3 of UN Regulation No 83. 2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
2.1. The general requirements for conducting the type 3 test shall be those set out in sections 1 and 2 of Annex 6 to UN Regulation No 83, with the exceptions set out in point 2.2 below. 2.2
The road load coefficients to be used shall be those for vehicle low (VL). If VL does not exist, then the VH road load shall be used. In that case VH is defined in accordance with point 4.2.1.1.1 of Annex B4 to UN Regulation No 154. In case the interpolation method is used VL and VH are specified in point 4.2.1.1.2 of Annex B4 to UN Regulation No 154. 3. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
3.1
The technical requirements shall be those set out in sections 3 to 6 of Annex 6 to UN Regulation No 83.
IN-SERVICE CONFORMITY METHODOLOGY
ANNEX II
IN-SERVICE CONFORMITY METHODOLOGY
1. INTRODUCTION
This Annex sets out the in-service conformity (ISC) methodology for checking compliance against the emission limits for tailpipe (including low temperature) and evaporative emissions throughout the additional lifetime of the vehicle, as set out in Table 1 of Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. 2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
The general requirements for conducting in-service conformity testing set out in Article 10 apply. 3. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
The technical requirements for conducting in-service conformity testing shall be those set out in Annex 4 of UN Regulation No 83 (1) with the exceptions described in the points below. 3.1. The Process Description in section 2 shall read as follows: 2 PROCESS DESCRIPTION: {{IMAGE:Image_1, Caption:Diagram outlining the In-Service Conformity (ISC) process steps, identifying main responsibilities and other actors for each phase from risk assessment to reporting.}} 3.2. The first 3 paragraphs of section 5 shall read as follows: '5. ISC TESTING
The manufacturer shall perform ISC testing for tailpipe emissions comprising at least the Type 1 test for all ISC families. The manufacturer may also perform RDE, ATCT, Type 4 and Type 6 tests for all or part of the ISC families. The manufacturer shall report to the granting type-approval authority all results of the ISC testing using the Electronic Platform for in-service conformity described in point 5.9, or other appropriate means where this is not possible. The granting type-approval authority shall check an appropriate number of ISC families each year, as set out in point 5.4. The manufacturer shall include all results of the ISC testing in the Electronic Platform for in-service conformity described in point 5.9. Recognised third parties may perform checks on any number of ISC families each year. They shall report to the granting type-approval authority all results of the ISC testing using the Electronic Platform for in-service conformity described in point 5.9, or other appropriate means where this is not possible.' 3.3. The first paragraph of section 5.7.1 shall read as follows: '5.7.1. General requirements
The vehicle shall belong to an ISC family as described in point 3 and shall comply with the checks set out in the table in Appendix 1. It shall be registered in the Union and have been driven in the Union for at least 90 % of its driving time. The emissions testing may be done in a different geographical region from that where the vehicles have been selected. In case of ISC testing conducted by the manufacturer, with the agreement of the granting type-approval authority, vehicles registered in a non-EU country or vehicles which have been registered in the EU but are temporarily de-registered may be tested, if they belong to the same ISC family and are accompanied by a certificate of conformity.' 3.4. The final paragraph of section 5.7.1 shall read as follows: 'A vehicle shall be excluded from ISC testing if the fuel from the vehicle tank does not meet the applicable standards laid down in Directive 98/70/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (*1) or if there is evidence or record of fuelling with the wrong type of fuel. (*1) Directive 98/70/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 1998 relating to the quality of petrol and diesel fuels (OJ L 350, 28.12.1998, p. 58, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/1998/70/oj).' "
3.5. Section 5.8 shall read as follows: '5.8. Sample size
When manufacturers apply the statistical procedure set out in point 5.10 for the Type 1 test, the number of sample lots shall be set on the basis of the annual sales volume of an in-service family in the Union, as described in the following table:

| Registrations in the EU per calendar year of vehicles in the sampling period | Number of sample lots (for Type 1 tests) |
|---|---|
| up to 100 000 | 1 |
| 100 001 to 200 000 | 2 |
| above 200 000 | 3 |

Each sample lot shall include enough vehicle types (with regard to emissions), in order to ensure that at least 20 % of the total registrations of this PEMS family in the EU for the previous year are covered. In case the same PEMS family is shared between more brands, then all brands shall be tested. When a family requires more than one sample lot to be tested, the vehicles selected in the second and third sample lots shall have been used in different ambient and/or typical use conditions from those selected for the first sample.' 3.6. Section 5.9 above Table A4/2 shall read as follows: '5.9. Use of the Electronic Platform for in-service conformity and access to data required for testing
The Commission has set up an electronic platform in order to facilitate the exchange of data between on the one side, the manufacturers, other actors and on the other side the granting type-approval authority and the taking of the decision on the sample fail or pass. The manufacturer shall complete the package on Testing Transparency referred to in Article 6 (8) in the format specified in Tables 1 and 2 of Appendix 5 and in Table 2 in this point and transmit it to the type- approval authority which grants the emission type-approval. Table 2 of Appendix 5 shall be used in order to allow the selection of vehicles from the same family for testing and along with Table 1 of Appendix 5 provide sufficient information for vehicles to be tested. The type-approval authority which grants the emission type- approval shall upload the information in Tables 1 and 2 of Appendix 5 to the electronic platform referred to in the first paragraph within 5 working days of receiving it.' 3.7. In paragraph 5.10.1 after the third sub-paragraph the following new sub-paragraph shall be added to read: 'For vehicles that have Declared Maximum RDE Values reported in point 48.2 of the Certificate of Conformity, which is lower than the emission limits set out in Table 1 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, the conformity shall be checked against these Declared Maximum RDE Values. If the sample is found not to conform with the Declared Maximum RDE Values, the granting type-approval authority shall require the manufacturer to take corrective actions.' 3.8. In paragraph 5.10.1 a new final sub-paragraph shall be added to read: 'The functions described above shall be executed directly in the Electronic Platform once the relevant functions are available.' 3.9. Section 5.10.2. shall read as follows: '5.10.2. Pooling of ISC results
Test results from other actors may be pooled for the purposes of a common statistical procedure. The pooling of test results shall require the written consent from all the interested parties providing test results to a pool of results, and a notification to the type-approval authorities, and to the electronic platform, prior to the start of testing. One of the parties shall be designated as leader of the pool and be responsible for data reporting and communication with the granting type-approval authority.' 3.10. The first paragraph of Section 5.10.3. shall read as follows: '5.10.3. Pass/Fail/Invalid outcome for a single test
An ISC emissions test shall be considered as "passed" for one or more pollutants when the emissions result is equal or below the emission limit set out in Table 1 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 for that type of test. When testing vehicles in the additional lifetime, the durability multipliers for adjusting the emission limits under Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 shall be used.' 3.11. The following section 5.10.6. shall be added: '5.10.6. ISC for completed vehicles and multistage special purpose vehicles
The manufacturer of the base vehicle shall determine the allowed values for the parameters listed in Table 3. The allowed Parameter Values for each family shall be recorded in the information document of the emissions type-approval (see Appendix 3 to Annex I) and in the Transparency list 1 of Appendix 5.
VERIFYING REAL DRIVING EMISSIONS (RDE)
ANNEX III
VERIFYING REAL DRIVING EMISSIONS (RDE)
1. INTRODUCTION
This Annex describes the procedure for determining Real Driving Emission. 2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
2.1. The general requirements for conducting the RDE test shall be those set out in UN Regulation No 168 (1), in relation to level 1A. 2.2. For vehicle types with regards to emissions approved according to this Annex, the final RDE emission results calculated according to this Annex at any possible RDE test performed in accordance with the requirements of this Annex, shall not be higher than any of the relevant Euro 7 emission limits laid down in Table 1 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. 2.3. The manufacturer may declare compliance with lower emission limits by declaring lower values called 'Declared Maximum RDE', either for NOx or PN or both, in the Manufacturer's RDE certificate of compliance and the Certificate of Conformity of each vehicle. These Declared Maximum RDE values shall be used for checking the compliance of cars when applicable, including for tests performed during In-service Conformity and Market Surveillance. 3. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
The technical requirements for conducting the RDE test shall be those set out in paragraph 6. and Annexes of UN Regulation No 168, with the exceptions described in the points below. 3.1. The following definition is added after paragraph 3.1: '
 "Declared Maximum RDE" means the emission values, which shall necessarily be lower than the applicable emission limits, declared optionally by the manufacturer and used for checking compliance against lower emission limits.' 3.2. Paragraph 10.8. of UN Regulation No 168 shall read as follows: '10.8. Data Reporting: All data of a single RDE test shall be recorded according to the data exchange and data reporting files provided by the Commission (2).' 3.3. The following paragraphs are added after paragraph 10.8. of UN Regulation No 168: '10.9. Reporting and dissemination of RDE type-approval test information
10.9.1. A technical report prepared by the manufacturer shall be made available to the approval authority. The technical report is composed of 4 items: (i) the Data Exchange file; (ii) the Reporting file; (iii) the Vehicle and engine description as described in Appendix 4 of Annex I of this Regulation; (iv) visual supporting material (photographs and/or videos) of the PEMS installation in the tested vehicle of adequate quality and quantity to identify the vehicle and to assess if the installation of the PEMS main unit, the EFM, the GNSS antenna, and the weather station follow the instrument manufacturer's recommendations and the general good practices of PEMS testing. 10.9.2. The manufacturer shall ensure that the information listed in paragraph 10.9.2.1. is made available on a publicly accessible website without costs and without the need for the user to reveal his identity or sign up. The manufacturer shall keep the Commission and Type Approval Authorities informed on the location of the website. 10.9.2.1. The website shall allow a wildcard search of the underlying database based on one or more of the following: Make, Type, Variant, Version, Commercial name, or Type Approval Number as referred to in the certificate of conformity, pursuant to Annex VIII to Regulation (EU) 2020/683. The information described below shall be made available for each vehicle in a search: —
The PEMS family ID to which that vehicle belongs, in accordance with the Transparency List 2 of Annex II to this Regulation; —
The Declared Maximum RDE Values as reported in point 48.2 of the Certificate of Conformity, as described in Annex VIII to Regulation (EU) 2020/683. 10.9.2.2. Upon request, without costs and within 10 days, the manufacturer shall make available the technical report referred to in paragraph 10.9.1. to any recognised third party and the Commission. The manufacturer shall also make available the technical report referred to in paragraph 10.9.1. upon request and with a reasonable and proportionate fee to others, which does not discourage an inquirer with a justified interest from requesting the respective information or exceed the internal costs of the manufacturer for making the requested information available. Upon request, the type-approval authority shall make available the information listed under paragraphs 10.9.1. and 10.9.2. without costs and within 10 days of receiving the request to any recognised third party or the Commission. The type-approval authority shall also make available to others upon request the information listed under paragraphs 10.9.1. and 10.9.2. with a reasonable and proportionate fee, which does not discourage an inquirer with a justified interest from requesting the respective information or exceed the internal costs of the authority for making the requested information available.' 3.4. The first sentence of Paragraph 6.1 of Annex 5 to UN Regulation No 168 shall read as follows: 'The PN analyser shall consist of a pre-conditioning unit and a particle detector that counts with minimum 50 per cent efficiency from approximately 10 nm.' 3.5. The legend in Figure A5/1 of Paragraph 6.1 of Annex 5 to UN Regulation No 168 shall read as follows: '(Dotted lines depict optional parts. The heated section shall be catalytically active. EFM = Exhaust mass Flow Meter, d = inner diameter, PND = Particle Number Diluter)'
3.6. The first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Paragraph 6.1 of Annex 5 to UN Regulation No 168 shall read as follows: 'The PN analyser shall include a catalytically active heated section at wall temperature ≥ 573 K.' 3.7. The last sentence of Paragraph 6.1 of Annex 5 to UN Regulation No 168 does not apply. 3.8. Table A5/3a in Paragraph 6.2 of Annex 5 to UN Regulation No 168 shall read as follows:

| 'dp [nm] | 10 | 15 | 30 | 50 | 70 | 100 | 200 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| E(dp) PN analyser | 0,1 - 0,5 | 0,3 - 0,7 | 0,75 - 1,05 | 0,85 - 1,15 | 0,85 - 1,15 | 0,80 - 1,20 | 0,80 - 2,00 ' |

3.9. The first paragraph under Table A5/3a of Paragraph 6.2. of Annex 5 to UN Regulation No 168 shall read as follows: 'Efficiency E(dp) is defined as the ratio in the readings of the PN analyser system to a reference Condensation Particle Counter (CPC)'s (with counting efficiency above 90 per cent for 10 nm equivalent electrical mobility diameter, checked for linearity and calibrated with an electrometer) or an Electrometer's number concentration measuring in parallel monodisperse aerosol of mobility diameter dp and normalized at the same temperature and pressure conditions.' 3.10. The third sentence of Paragraph 6.3 of Annex 5 to UN Regulation No 168 shall read as follows: 'The reference instrument shall be an Electrometer or a Condensation Particle Counter (CPC) with counting efficiency above 90 per cent for 10 nm equivalent electrical mobility diameter, verified for linearity.' 3.11. The last sentence of the first paragraph of Paragraph 6.3 of Annex 5 to UN Regulation No 168 shall read as follows: 'Alternatively, a particle number system compliant with UN Regulation No 154 on WLTP with a counting efficiency above 90 per cent for 10 nm equivalent electrical mobility diameter can be used as reference instrument for the linearity check of the complete system.' 3.12. The first and second sentence of Paragraph 6.4 of Annex 5 to UN Regulation No 168 shall read as follows: 'The system shall achieve > 99,9 per cent removal of ≥ 30 nm tetracontane (CH3(CH2)38CH3) particles with an inlet concentration of ≥ 10 000 particles per cubic-centimetre at the minimum dilution. The system shall also achieve a > 99,9 per cent removal efficiency of tetracontane with count median diameter > 50nm and mass > 1 mg/m3.' 3.13. The following sentence is added to paragraph 4.4.1.2 of Annex 8 to UN Regulation No 168:
REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES THAT USE A REAGENT FOR THE EXHAUST AFTER-TREATMENT SYSTEM
ANNEX XVI
REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES THAT USE A REAGENT FOR THE EXHAUST AFTER-TREATMENT SYSTEM
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. This Annex sets out the requirements for vehicles that rely on the use of a reagent for the after-treatment system in order to reduce emissions.

2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
2.1. The general requirements for vehicles that use a reagent for the exhaust after-treatment system shall be those set out in paragraph 6.9 of UN Regulation No 154. 2.2. A template for the manufacturer's declaration of compliance with the reagent requirements is laid down in Appendix 1 of this Annex. 3. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
3.1. The technical requirements for vehicles that use a reagent for the exhaust after-treatment system shall be those set out in Appendix 6 to UN Regulation No 154. The reference to a demonstration as set out in paragraph 8.7 of Appendix 6 to UN Regulation No 154 is not applicable. 3.2. The reference to Annex A1 in paragraph 4.1 of Appendix 6 to UN Regulation No 154 shall be understood as reference to Appendix 3 of Annex I to this Regulation.
Article 1 - Scope
This Regulation applies to the emission type-approval with regard to exhaust emissions and evaporative emissions of the motor vehicles belonging to the following vehicle categories:

(1) M1 and N1; (2) N2 designated as 'Euro 7ext' and 'Euro 7Gext' in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257.
Article 5 - Requirements for emission type-approval regarding on-board fuel and electric energy consumption monitoring devices
1.

The manufacturer shall ensure that the following vehicles of categories M1, N1 and N2 designated as 'Euro 7ext' or 'Euro 7Gext' in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 are equipped with an on-board fuel and electric energy consumption monitoring device: (a) pure ICE and Not-Off-Vehicle Charging Hybrid Electric vehicles (NOVC-HEVs) powered exclusively by mineral diesel, biodiesel, petrol, ethanol or any combination of these fuels; (b) Off-Vehicle Charging Hybrid Electric Vehicles (OVC-HEVs) powered by electricity and any of the fuels referred to in point (a). 2. On-board fuel and electric energy consumption monitoring devices referred to in Article 4(6), point (c) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 shall comply with the requirements laid down in Annex XXII to this Regulation.
Article 9 - Conformity of production
1. The provisions laid down in Section 4 of Annex I to this Regulation and the relevant statistical method in Appendix 2 of UN Regulation No 154 shall apply, in addition to measures to ensure the conformity of production that shall be taken by the manufacturer in accordance with article 31 of Regulation (EU) 2018/858.

2. Conformity of production shall be checked on the basis of the description in the type-approval certificate set out in Appendix 4 to Annex I.
Article 12 - Application for emission type-approval of a type of replacement control device as a separate technical unit
1.

The manufacturer shall submit to the approval authority an application for emission type-approval of a type of replacement pollution control device as a separate technical unit. The application shall be drawn up in accordance with the model of the information document set out in Appendix 1 to Annex XIII. 2. In addition to the requirements laid down in paragraph 1, the manufacturer shall submit to the technical service responsible for the emission type-approval test all of the following: (a) a vehicle or vehicles of a type that is approved in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 equipped with a new original equipment pollution control device; (b) one sample of the type of the replacement pollution control device; (c) an additional sample of the type of the replacement pollution control device, in the case of a replacement pollution control device intended to be fitted to a vehicle equipped with an OBD system. 3. For the purposes of paragraph 2, point (a), the test vehicles shall be selected by the applicant with the agreement of the technical service. 4. The test vehicles shall comply with the requirements set out in Section 2.3. of Annex B6 to UN Regulation No 154. 5. The test vehicles shall meet all of the following requirements: (a) they shall have no emission control system defects; (b) any excessively worn out or malfunctioning emission-related original parts shall be repaired or replaced; (c) they shall be tuned properly and set to manufacturer's specification prior to emission testing. 6. For the purposes of paragraph 2, points (b) and (c), the sample shall be clearly and indelibly marked with the applicant's trade name or mark and its commercial designation. 7. For the purposes of paragraph 2, point (c), the sample shall have been deteriorated in accordance with Annex C4 to UN Regulation No 154.
Article 16 - Anti-tampering, security and cybersecurity
The manufacturer shall ensure that vehicles comply with specific requirements related to emission type-approval in accordance with Annex XIV.
Article 18 - Amendments to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/683
Annexes I, IV and VIII to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/683 are amended in accordance with Annex XVIII to this Regulation.
Article 17 - Specific administrative provisions for emission type-approval
1. Emission type-approval shall be granted under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 only if the requirements of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1707 (17) are also complied with.

2. Emission type-approval for vehicles constructed and placed on the market by small-volume manufacturers and ultra-small-volume manufacturers as provided for in Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 shall be granted in accordance with Articles 4 and 5 of Regulation (EC) No 715/2007 and Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/1151. 3. For vehicles type-approved in accordance with this Regulation that shall be designated as 'Euro 7- TEMP' vehicles, the requirements and dates of Table 1 of Appendix 6 of Annex I to this Regulation, shall apply. 4. For vehicle types with an existing valid type-approval issued in accordance with emission level 'Euro 6e' under the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 715/2007 that comply with the applicable dates of Appendix 6 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2017/1151 and for which a manufacturer requests an emission type-approval in order to designate new vehicles to be compliant to the emission standards, as specified in Table 1 of Appendix 6 of Annex I to this Regulation, new type-approval testing shall not be required if: (a) the manufacturer declares to the granting type-approval authority that compliance with the requirements of this Regulation is ensured; and
(b) the technical service responsible for the testing agrees that the previous type-approved test results can be used for the preparation of a new emission test report to demonstrate compliance to the Euro 7 requirements. 5. Requirements not related to the testing of the vehicle, including required declarations and data requirements, shall apply.
AMENDMENTS TO IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2020/683
ANNEX XVIII
AMENDMENTS TO IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2020/683
The explanatory notes in Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2020/683 are amended as follows:

(1) the explanatory note (116) is replaced by the following: '(116) Add the number of the Euro level and, if appropriate, add: —
the character corresponding to the provisions used for type-approval; —
where Regulation (EC) No 715/2007 applies ("Euro 6"), the relevant character provided for in Table 1 of Annex I, Appendix 6 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/1151; —
where Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 applies ('Euro 7'), the relevant emission character provided for in Table 1 of Annex I, Appendix 6 of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1706.' (2) the explanatory notes (190) and (191) are added: '(190) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1706 laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 of the European Parliament and of the Council on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, with respect to their emissions and battery durability ("Euro 7")
(191) Where Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 applies ("Euro 7"): add the approval certificate numbers of all relevant Implementing Acts, in accordance with example (e) of point 3.1 of Annex IV. Also add the relevant OBM family identifiers as indicated in Annex III to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1707. List all relevant approval certificate numbers row by row in a table. The number of rows in the table shall match the number of approval certificate numbers and OBM family identifiers. For other cases, point 48.3 is not applicable.' Annex IV is amended as follows: (1) in point 2.2 (section 2), the following point (d) is added: '(d) the number of the Implementing Regulation adopted pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 and laying down the applicable requirements.' (2) at the end of point 2.3 (section 3), the following paragraph is added: 'Where there is an emission type-approval in accordance with the relevant Implementing Act that applies under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, the number of the last amending implementing act shall be directly followed by one of the two-letter characters from its corresponding implementing act table, i.e. without an asterisk being placed between this number and the relevant two-letter character.' (3) in point 3.1, the following point (e) is added: '(e) in accordance with Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1706 (190): e2*2025/1706*2025/1706MA*00003*00'. The Appendix to Annex VIII is amended as follows: (1) the following point 48.3 is added to Model B-Part 2 (complete and completed vehicles with categories M1 , N1 and N2) and Model C-Part 2 (incomplete vehicles with categories M1, N1 and N2): '48.3
The relevant approval certificate number(s) and OBM family identifier(s)' (191):
TYPE-APPROVAL OF VEHICLES FITTED WITH ECO-INNOVATIONS AND DETERMINATION OF CO2 EMISSIONS AND FUEL CONSUMPTION FROM VEHICLES SUBMITTED TO MULTI-STAGE TYPE-APPROVAL OR INDIVIDUAL VEHICLE APPROVAL
ANNEX XII
TYPE-APPROVAL OF VEHICLES FITTED WITH ECO-INNOVATIONS AND DETERMINATION OF CO2 EMISSIONS AND FUEL CONSUMPTION FROM VEHICLES SUBMITTED TO MULTI-STAGE TYPE-APPROVAL OR INDIVIDUAL VEHICLE APPROVAL
1. TYPE-APPROVAL OF VEHICLES FITTED WITH ECO-INNOVATIONS
1.1. In accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EU) 2023/2767, a manufacturer wishing to benefit from a reduction of its average specific CO2 emissions by means of the CO2 savings from an eco-innovation, shall apply to an approval authority for an EU emission type-approval certificate of the vehicle fitted with the eco-innovation.

1.2. The type-approval authority shall determine the CO2 savings of the eco-innovation in accordance with Article 30 of Regulation (EU) 2018/858, using a methodology set out in the Commission Implementing Decision on the approval of that innovative technology as an eco-innovation, in accordance with Article 6 of Regulation (EU) 2023/2767. 2. DETERMINATION OF CO2 EMISSIONS AND FUEL CONSUMPTION FROM VEHICLES SUBMITTED TO MULTI-STAGE TYPE-APPROVAL OR INDIVIDUAL VEHICLE APPROVAL
2.1. In the case of a multi-stage type-approval, the procedures of Annex XXI shall apply for the purpose of determining the CO2 emissions and fuel consumption of incomplete and completed vehicles
2.2. By way of derogation from paragraph 2.1, at the request of the final-stage manufacturer, where the base vehicle is incomplete, and if the base vehicle manufacturer has made available a calculation tool to establish the final fuel consumption and CO2 values as specified in Annex B7 to UN Regulation No 154 on the basis of the parameters of completed vehicles, the CO2 emissions and fuel consumption of the completed vehicle shall be calculated by the final-stage manufacturer on the basis of the parameters of the completed vehicle as specified in paragraph 3.2.4 of Annex B7 to UN Regulation No 154. For that purpose, the base vehicle manufacturer shall establish a road load matrix family, as defined in paragraph 6.3.4 of UN Regulation No 154, based on the parameters of a representative multi-stage vehicle in accordance with paragraph 4.2.1.4 of Annex B4 to UN Regulation No 154. The base vehicle manufacturer shall calculate the road load coefficients of vehicle HM and LM of the road load matrix family as set out in paragraph 5 of Annex B4 to UN Regulation No 154 and shall determine the CO2 emission and fuel consumption of those vehicles in a Type 1 test. The calculation of the road load and running resistance for an individual multi-stage vehicle shall be performed by the completed vehicle manufacturer in accordance with paragraph 5.1 of Annex B4 to UN Regulation No 154. These values shall be fed into the calculation tool to determine the CO2 emissions and fuel consumption of the completed vehicle. 2.3. By way of derogation from paragraph 2.1, where the base vehicle is a complete vehicle, the final-stage manufacturer shall determine the CO2 emissions of the completed vehicle on the basis of information from the base vehicle manufacturer. The CO2 emissions shall be determined in accordance with the CO2 interpolation method using the appropriate data from the completed vehicle or calculated on the basis of the parameters of the completed vehicle as specified in paragraph 3.2.4 of Annex B7 to UN Regulation No 154 and using the calculation tool referred to in point 2.2 if it is supplied by the base vehicle manufacturer. If the CO2 interpolation is not possible or the tool is not available, subject to the agreement of the approval authority, the CO2 emissions of the completed vehicle shall be the CO2 emissions of Vehicle High from the base vehicle. 2.4. The final-stage manufacturer shall include in the certificate of conformity the information of the completed vehicle and the information of the base vehicle in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2020/683. In the case of multi-stage vehicles submitted to individual vehicle approval, the individual approval certificate shall include the following information: (a) the CO2 emissions measured in accordance with the methodology set out in point 2.1 or, where applicable, 2.2 or 2.3; (b) the mass in running order of the completed vehicle; (c) the type, variant and version of the base vehicle; (d) the type-approval number of the base vehicle; (e) the name and address of the base vehicle manufacturer; (f) the mass in running order of the base vehicle.
GEAR SHIFT INDICATOR (GSI)
ANNEX X
GEAR SHIFT INDICATOR (GSI)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1. This Annex clarifies some of the requirements related to exhaust pollutant emissions in the real world, including when following the gear shift indicator (GSI).

2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
2.1. Regulation (EU) 2019/2144 regulates gear shift indicators (GSI), whose main purpose is to minimise fuel consumption of a vehicle when a driver follows its indications. 2.2. The technical specifications for gear shift indicators set out in PART 2 of Annex IX to Regulation (EU) 2021/535 (1) shall apply. 3. CLARIFICATION OF THE REQUIREMENTS
3.1. The technical specifications for gear shift indicators set out in PART 2 of Annex IX to Regulation (EU) 2021/535 shall apply to M1 vehicles equipped with a manual gearbox which can only be operated in manual mode. 3.2. Section 5.2 PART 2 of Annex IX to Regulation (EU) 2021/535 of the functional requirements for Gear Shift Indicators (GSI) shall be understood to serve as a clarification with non-exhaustive examples. Regarding the provision that the GSI strategy shall facilitate the timely functioning of the pollution control devices, minimising their heat up time, 'timely functioning of the pollution control devices' shall be understood as ensuring compliance to the exhaust pollutant emission requirements laid down in this Regulation. (1) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/535 of 31 March 2021 laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) 2019/2144 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards uniform procedures and technical specifications for the type-approval of vehicles, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles, as regards their general construction characteristics and safety (OJ L 117, 6.4.2021, p. 1, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2021/535/oj).
(1) 'vehicle type with regard to emissions' means a group of vehicles which: (a) do not differ with respect to the criteria constituting an 'interpolation family' as specified in paragraph
Article 19 - Entry into force
This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

Annex XVIII shall apply from 29 November 2026.
Article 15 - Gear Shift Indicator
The manufacturer shall ensure that vehicles comply with specific requirements related to emission type-approval in accordance with Annex X.
Article 11 - Pollution control devices
1.

The manufacturer shall ensure that replacement pollution control devices intended to be fitted to emission type-approved vehicles covered by the scope of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 are emission type-approved as separate technical units in accordance with Article 13 and Annex XIII to this Regulation. The requirements for pollution control devices laid down in this Article shall be deemed to be met if the replacement pollution control devices have been approved according to UN Regulation No 103 (16). 2. For the purposes of this Regulation, catalytic converters and particulate filters shall be considered to be pollution control devices. 3. Original equipment replacement pollution control devices, which fall within the type covered by point 2.3 of the Addendum to Annex A2 of UN Regulation No 154 and are intended for fitment to a vehicle to which the relevant type-approval document refers, do not need to comply with Annex XIII to this Regulation if they fulfil the requirements of points 2.1 and 2.2 of Annex XIII to this Regulation. 4. The manufacturer shall ensure that the original pollution control device carries identification markings. 5. The identification markings referred to in paragraph 3 shall comprise the following: (a) the vehicle or engine manufacturer's name or trade mark; (b) the make and identifying part number of the original pollution control device as recorded in the information referred to in point 3.2.12.2 of Annex A1 to UN Regulation No 154.
Article 7 - Administrative provisions for emission type-approval of a vehicle
1. Manufacturers and the granting type-approval authorities shall use the templates and models set out in Annexes I, V, VII, XI, XIV, XVI, XXI to this Regulation for demonstrating compliance with the emission type-approval requirements laid down in Articles 4 and 7 of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 on testing.

2. If the requirements in Articles 4, 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10 of this Regulation are met, the approval authority shall grant an emission type-approval and issue an emission type-approval number in accordance with the numbering system set out in Annex IV to Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/683. However, Section 3 of the emission type-approval number referred to in point 2.3. of Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2020/683 shall be drawn up in accordance with Appendix 6 to Annex I of this Regulation. An approval authority shall not assign the same number to another vehicle type. 3. By way of derogation from paragraph 2, at the request of the manufacturer, a vehicle with an OBD system may be accepted for emission type-approval, even though the system contains one or more deficiencies such that the specific requirements of Annex XI are not fully met, provided that the specific administrative provisions set out in Section 3 of that Annex are complied with. The approval authority shall notify the decision to grant such a type-approval to all type-approval authorities in the other Member States in accordance with Article 27 of Regulation (EU) 2018/858. 4. When granting an emission type-approval under Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, the approval authority shall issue an emission type-approval certificate using the model set out in Appendix 4 to Annex I to this Regulation.
Article 4 - Requirements for emission type-approval regarding the OBD system
The manufacturer shall ensure that the OBD system fulfils the requirements set out in Annex XI.
SPECIFICATIONS OF REFERENCE FUELS
ANNEX IX
SPECIFICATIONS OF REFERENCE FUELS
1. REFERENCE FUELS
1.1. The specifications for the reference fuels to be used shall be those set out in Annex B3 to UN Regulation No 154.

2. REFERENCE FUELS FOR TESTING EMISSIONS AT LOW AMBIENT TEMPERATURES - TYPE 6 TEST
2.1. The specifications for the reference fuels to be used in the Type 6 test shall be those set out in Annex 10 and Annex 10a to UN Regulation No 83.
recital 2
(2) Simplification is achieved by establishing the testing procedures, methodologies and procedures, tests and checks, in accordance with the requirements specified in Annex V to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 and eliminating tests which are no longer relevant and replacing certification tests with declarations by the vehicle manufacturer, by referring to UN Regulations where applicable, and by ensuring a consistent set of procedures and tests for the various phases of the emission type-approval.
recital 3
(3) UN Regulations (3), notably UN Regulation No 154 (4), UN Regulation No 168 (5) and UN Regulation No 83 (6) are referred to in this Regulation only in the context of emission type-approval for light-duty vehicles that is covered by Article 14(8)(a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257.

Testing procedures, methodologies and procedures, tests and checks that are included in the above-mentioned UN Regulations and relate to M2 and N2 vehicles shall be adopted subsequently under Article 14(9)(a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257.
recital 4
(4) In order to integrate internationally harmonised technical rules into the emission type-approval system, references should be made to UN Regulation No 154 in accordance with the requirements set out in Table 1 of Annex III to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 regarding test conditions and administrative provisions that apply to emissions type-approval under laboratory exhaust emission measurement, but also for Model Information Document, Model of Emission Type-Approval certificate and test report ensuring that emission type-approval specificities are set out.

References should be made to UN Regulation No 168 in accordance with requirements set out in Table 1 of Annex III to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 regarding test conditions and administrative provisions that apply to Emissions type-approval under Real Driving Emission (RDE), adding requirements that comply with specific provisions of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 regarding exhaust PN10 emissions. Where appropriate, reference should also be made to UN Regulation No 83 regarding the measurement of crankcase gases, the emissions at low ambient temperature and the in-service conformity methodology. Additionally, UN Regulation No 155 (7) should be referred to for cybersecurity measures and to ensure the secure transmission of data related to emissions.
recital 11
(11) At market surveillance stage, screening tests for the presence of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies related to exhaust and evaporative emissions should focus on identifying situations where the vehicle detects test conditions followed by a change in the emissions control strategy and emissions behaviour that is not documented at type-approval.

For the effective performance of such screening tests and assessment, it is appropriate that market surveillance authorities performing such tests should use a variety of testing approaches, and be able to evaluate the results of the screening by comparing them not to the emission limits set out in Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, but to specific thresholds based on technical considerations.
recital 15
(15) The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Technical Committee - Motor vehicles (TCMV),
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
ANNEX XIX
ANNEX XIX
(reserved)
WORLD HARMONIZED LIGHT VEHICLE TEST PROCEDURE (WLTP) - (TYPE 1 TEST)
ANNEX XXI
WORLD HARMONIZED LIGHT VEHICLE TEST PROCEDURE (WLTP) - (TYPE 1 TEST)
1. INTRODUCTION
This Annex describes the procedure for determining the levels of emissions of gaseous compounds, particulate matter, particle number, CO2 emissions, fuel consumption, electric energy consumption and electric range from light- duty vehicles. 2. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
2.1. The general requirements for conducting the type 1 test shall be those set out in UN Regulation No 154, in relation to level 1A. 2.2. The limit values referred to in Table 1A of paragraph 6.3.10 of UN Regulation No 154 shall be replaced by the limit values set out in Table 1 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. 2.3. In relation to the ambient temperature correction test (ATCT), unless the approval authority requires a test to be performed, the template for a manufacturer's declaration as laid down in Appendix 1 of this Annex shall be used. 2.4. A template for the manufacturer's declaration for the regeneration requirements is laid down in Appendix 2 of this Annex. 3. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
The technical requirements for conducting the type 1 test shall be those set out in paragraph 6.3 and Annexes Part B of UN Regulation No 154, with the exceptions described in the points below. 3.1. Table A4/2 in paragraph 4.2.2.1. of Annex B4 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows:

| Energy efficiency class | Range of RRC for C1 tyres | Range of RRC for C2 tyres | Range of RRC for C3 tyres |
|---|---|---|---|
| A | RRC ≤ 6,5 | RRC ≤ 5,5 | RRC ≤ 4,0 |
| B | 6,6 ≤ RRC ≤ 7,7 | 5,6 ≤ RRC ≤ 6,7 | 4,1 ≤ RRC ≤ 5,0 |
| C | 7,8 ≤ RRC ≤ 9,0 | 6,8 ≤ RRC ≤ 8,0 | 5,1 ≤ RRC ≤ 6,0 |
| D | 9,1 ≤ RRC ≤ 10,5 | 8,1 ≤ RRC ≤ 9,0 | 6,1 ≤ RRC ≤ 7,0 |
| E | RRC ≥10,6 | RRC ≥ 9,1 | RRC ≥ 7,1 |
| Energy efficiency class | Value of RRC to be used for interpolation for C1 tyres | Value of RRC to be used for interpolation for C2 tyres | Value of RRC to be used for interpolation for C3 tyres |
| A | RRC = 5,9 (*1) | RRC = 4,9 (*1) | RRC = 3,5 (*1) |
| B | RRC = 7,1 | RRC = 6,1 | RRC = 4,5 |
| C | RRC = 8,4 | RRC = 7,4 | RRC = 5,5 |
| D | RRC = 9,8 | RRC = 8,6 | RRC = 6,5 |
| E | RRC = 11,3 | RRC = 9,9 | RRC = 7,5 | 3.2
Paragraph 4.3.1.2.1.3 of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows: '4.3.1.2.1.3. Any other sampling configuration for the PTS for which equivalent solid particle penetration at 15 nm can be demonstrated shall be considered acceptable.' 3.3
Paragraph 4.3.1.2.1.5 of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows: '4.3.1.2.1.5. Any other sampling configuration for the OT for which equivalent solid particle penetration at 15 nm can be demonstrated shall be considered acceptable.' 3.4
The first paragraph of 4.3.1.3.3(g) of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows: '(g) Achieve a particle concentration reduction factor fr(di) for particles of 15 nm, 30 nm and 50 nm electrical mobility diameters that is no more than 100 per cent, 30 per cent and 20 per cent respectively higher, and no more than 5 per cent lower than that for particles of 100 nm electrical mobility diameter for the VPR as a whole;' 3.5
Paragraph 4.3.1.3.3(i) of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows: '(i) Achieve more than 99,9 per cent vaporization of tetracontane (CH3(CH2)38CH3) particles with count median diameter > 50 nm and mass > 1 mg/m3, by means of heating and reduction of partial pressures of the tetracontane.' 3.6
Table A5/2 in paragraph 4.3.1.3.4 of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows:

| Nominal particle electrical mobility diameter (nm) | PNC counting efficiency (per cent) |
|---|---|
| 10 | 65 ± 15 |
| 15 | > 90' |

3.7
Figure A5/14 in paragraph 4.3.1.4 of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows: ' {{IMAGE:Image_3, Caption:Schematic diagram of a particle number sampling system, illustrating the path from the dilution tunnel through the Volatile Particle Remover (VPR) to the Particle Number Counter (PNC).}} '
3.8
The final sentence in paragraph 4.3.1.4 of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows: 'The evaporation tube, ET, shall be catalytically active with a wall temperature of 350 °C (±10 °C).'
3.9
Paragraph 5.7 until 5.7.1 of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 is not applicable. 3.10
Paragraph 5.7.1.3(b) of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows: '(b) A second full flow PNC with counting efficiency above 90 per cent for 10 nm equivalent electrical mobility diameter particles that has been calibrated by the method described above. The second PNC counting efficiency shall be taken into account in the calibration.' 3.11
Paragraph 5.7.1.4. of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows: '5.7.1.4. Calibration shall also include a check, according to the requirements of paragraph 4.3.1.3.4.(h) of this annex, on the PNC's counting efficiency with particles of 10 nm electrical mobility diameter. A check of the counting efficiency with 15 nm particles is not required during periodical calibration.' 3.12
The last section of paragraph 5.7.2.1. of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows: 'The VPR shall be characterised for particle concentration reduction factor with solid particles of 15, 30, 50 and 100 nm electrical mobility diameter. Particle concentration reduction factors fr(d) for particles of 15 nm, 30 nm and 50 nm electrical mobility diameters shall be no more than 100 per cent, 30 per cent and 20 per cent higher respectively, and no more than 5 per cent lower than that for particles of 100 nm electrical mobility diameter. For the purposes of validation, the arithmetic average of the particle concentration reduction factor calculated for particles of 30 nm, 50 nm and 100 nm electrical mobility diameters shall be within ±10 per cent of the arithmetic average particle concentration reduction factor fr determined during the latest complete calibration of the VPR.' 3.13
The first section of paragraph 5.7.2.2. of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows: 'The test aerosol for these measurements shall be solid particles of 30, 50 and 100 nm electrical mobility diameter with a minimum concentration of 5 000 particles per cm3 and a minimum concentration of 3 000 particles per cm3 of 15 nm electrical mobility diameter at the VPR inlet. The test aerosol shall be thermally stable at the VPR operating temperatures. Particle number concentrations shall be measured upstream and downstream of the components.' 3.14
The second sentence in paragraph 5.7.2.2 and the text after the second equation in paragraph 5.7.2.2 of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall be deleted. 3.15
Paragraph 5.7.2.3 of Annex B5 to UN Regulation No 154 shall read as follows: '5.7.2.3. The VPR shall demonstrate greater than 99.9 per cent removal efficiency of tetracontane (CH3(CH2)38CH3) particles with count median diameter > 50 nm and mass > 1 mg/m3.' (*1) In case the actual RRC value is lower than this value, the actual rolling resistance value of the tyre or any higher value up to the RRC value indicated here shall be used for interpolation.
4.3. Checking the conformity of the vehicle for a Type 3 test
If a verification of the Type 3 test is to be carried out, it shall be conducted in accordance with the following requirements:

4.3.1. When the approval authority determines that the quality of production seems unsatisfactory, a vehicle shall be randomly taken from the family and subjected to the tests described in Annex V.
4.3.2. The production shall be deemed to conform if this vehicle meets the requirements of the tests described in Annex V.
4.3.3. If the vehicle tested does not satisfy the requirements of the tests described in Annex V, a further random sample of four vehicles shall be taken from the same family and subjected to the tests described in Annex V. The tests may be carried out on vehicles which have completed a maximum of 15 000 km with no modifications. 4.3.4. The production shall be deemed to conform if at least three vehicles meet the requirements of the tests described in Annex V. (1) UN Regulation No 154 - Uniform provisions concerning the approval of light duty passenger and commercial vehicles with regards to criteria emissions, emissions of carbon dioxide and fuel consumption and/or the measurement of electric energy consumption and electric range (WLTP), 02 series of amendments (OJ L, 2022/2124, 10.11.2022, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2022/2124/oj). (2) Declaration of compliance by the vehicle manufacturer at type-approval. (3) Only fuel consumption shall be determined when the vehicle is running on hydrogen. (4) When a bi-fuel vehicle is combined with a flex fuel vehicle, both test requirements are applicable. (5) Only NOx emissions shall be determined when the vehicle is running on hydrogen. (6) Particulate mass and particle number limits and respective measurement procedures shall not apply. (7) CO2 emissions do not need to be measured. (8) For applicability of measured components to fuels and vehicle technology and therefore measurement procedures, see the emission limits as defined in Table 1 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. (9) UN Regulation No 83 - Uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the emission of pollutants according to engine fuel requirements (OJ L, 2024/1312, 27.6.2024, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1312/oj). (10) Regulation (EU) 2019/631 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2019 setting CO2 emission performance standards for new passenger cars and for new light commercial vehicles (OJ L 111, 25.4.2019, p. 13, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2019/631/oj).
4.4.4. Other requirements
The requirements provided in paragraphs 5.2.3, 5.3, 5.4 and 5.5 of UN Regulation No 103 shall apply to replacement periodically regenerating systems.

In these paragraphs the words 'catalytic converter' shall be understood to mean 'periodically regenerating system'. The exceptions provided in the paragraphs in section 4.1 of this Annex shall also apply to periodically regenerating systems. 5. DOCUMENTATION
5.1. Each replacement pollution control device shall be clearly and indelibly marked with the manufacturer's name or trade mark and accompanied by the following information: (a) the vehicles (including year of manufacture) for which the re- placement pollution control device is approved, including, where applicable, a marking to identify if the replacement pollution control device is suitable for fitting to a vehicle that is equipped with an on-board diagnostic (OBD) system; (b) installation instructions, where necessary. The information shall be available in the product catalogue distributed to points of sale by the manufacturer of replacement pollution control devices. 6. CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION
6.1. Measures to ensure the conformity of production shall be taken in accordance with the provisions laid down in Article 31 of Regulation (EU) 2018/858. 6.2. Special provisions
6.2.1. The checks referred to in point 3 of Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2018/858 shall include compliance with the characteristics as defined under Article 3(5) of this Regulation. 6.2.2. For the application of Article 31(3) of Regulation (EU) 2018/858, the tests described in section 4.4.1 of this Annex and section 5.2 of UN/ECE Regulation No 103 (requirements regarding emissions) may be carried out. In this case, the holder of the approval may request, as an alternative, to use as a basis for comparison not the original equipment pollution control device, but the replacement pollution control device which was used during the type-approval tests (or another sample that has been proven to conform to the approved type). Emissions values measured with the sample under verification shall then on average not exceed by more than 15 % the mean values measured with the sample used for reference.
Following the attack, the market surveillance authority may condition the vehicle by driving it over a certain distance, over multiple trips, or in other conditions that are deemed appropriate for the attack to be detected. 3.3.3.1. Evaluation of effects on exhaust emissions (pollutants monitored by OBM)
After the attack and optional conditioning, an ex post Type 1 or RDE test shall be performed. The ex ante and ex post tests shall be of the same type. If two RDE tests are driven, the tests shall be performed over the same route, with similar driving behaviour, and under comparable environmental and traffic conditions. Following the ex post emissions test, the test outcome shall be determined for each pollutant monitored by the OBM system. The test outcome shall be considered a 'pass' if one of the following is observed: (a) Exhaust emissions do not increase substantially from those of the ex ante emissions test. A substantial increase shall be understood as an exhaust emissions increase by more than 100 % of the applicable emission limit and where emissions of the ex post test are above the applicable OBD threshold. (b) Exhaust emissions are substantially increased to a level of up to 2,5 times the applicable emission limit, while the tampering detection level is set to 'Level 1' or higher. (c) Exhaust emissions are substantially increased to a level equal or higher than 2,5 times the applicable emission limit, while the tampering detection level is set to 'Level 2' and the corresponding OBM status has transitioned to 'Error'. If the test outcome is not a direct 'pass', the vehicle may be conditioned further to allow more evaluation time for the OBM system to transition the pollutant monitoring statuses and tampering detection level. When, after further conditioning, the monitoring statuses or tampering detection level do not transition in such a way that they lead to a 'pass' outcome, the test outcome shall be considered a 'follow-up' if one of the following outcomes is observed: (a) Exhaust emissions are substantially increased to a level of up to 2,5 times the applicable emission limit, while the tampering detection level is set to 'Level 0'. (b) Exhaust emissions are substantially increased to a level equal or higher than 2,5 times the applicable emission limit, while the corresponding OBM status has transitioned to 'Error' and the tampering detection level is set to 'Level 1' or lower. If the outcome is neither a 'pass' nor a 'follow-up', it shall be considered a 'fail'. Vehicles not equipped with an OBM system shall be excluded from the evaluation of the effects on exhaust emissions according to this paragraph. 3.3.3.2. Evaluation of effects on exhaust emissions (pollutants not monitored by OBM)
After the attack and optional conditioning, an ex post Type 1 or RDE test shall be performed. The ex ante and ex post tests shall be of the same type. If two RDE tests are driven, the tests shall be performed over the same route, with similar driving behaviour, and under comparable environmental and traffic conditions. Following the ex post emissions test, for all pollutants not monitored by the OBM system, the test outcome shall be considered a 'follow-up' when the pollutants are substantially increased to a level above the applicable OBD threshold values as specified in paragraph 6.8.2 of UN Regulation No 154 while the malfunction indicator (MI) is not activated. In any other case, it shall be considered a 'pass'. If the test outcome is not a direct 'pass', the vehicle may be conditioned further to allow more evaluation time for the OBD system to activate the malfunction indicator. 3.3.3.3. Evaluation of effects on the integrity of data
Following the attack and optional conditioning, the outcome shall be considered a 'pass' when the attack is unsuccessful in modifying data of the systems listed in Article 4(7) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. If the attack is successful in modifying data of the systems listed in Article 4(7) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, the outcome shall be evaluated by the market surveillance authority on the following two criteria: (a) Impact: what the relevance of data modification is in terms of impact on the environment or on the aims of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257; (b) Response: whether the vehicle responded by adequately conveying information about the invalidity of the modified data. When the impact is regarded as insignificant, the outcome shall be considered a 'pass'. When the impact is regarded as significant, and the response is deemed adequate by the authority, the outcome shall be considered a 'pass'. When the impact is regarded as significant and the response is deemed inadequate, the outcome shall be considered a 'follow-up'. In such cases, the market surveilance authority shall contact the manufacturer to inform them of the outcome of the test, the characteristics of the vehicle and the nature of the tests performed. The manufacturer may propose further conditioning to allow additional time for the vehicle to respond to the attack, or repeated tests on similar vehicles. Following the further conditioning or repeated tests, the response of the vehicle shall be evaluated. If the vehicle response is still deemed inadequate by the market surveillance authority, the outcome shall be confirmed as a 'follow-up'. If the response of the vehicle is deemed adequate, the outcome shall be considered a 'pass'. 3.3.4. Follow-up activities
In the case of an attack with an outcome considered as 'follow-up', it shall be investigated in detail, where necessary in cooperation with the manufacturer and the granting type-approval authority, to establish: (a) which vulnerabilities were exploited and whether these were identified at the time of type-approval; (b) in case that vulnerabilities were identified at the time of type-approval, whether the mitigation measures have been properly applied; (c) whether the vulnerabilities apply to other vehicle types with regard to emissions. Without prejudice to requirements of Chapter XI of Regulation (EU) 2018/858, the manufacturer shall, within a period agreed with the market surveillance authority, propose a technical solution to the market surveillance authority to increase the resistance of the vehicle against attacks, either by effectively mitigating the exploitation of the vulnerability or by implementing methods to detect the attack and initiate an appropriate response, along with a plan to implement this technical solution. The market surveillance authority shall evaluate the technical solution and accompanying implementation plan and request modifications where appropriate. When the technical solution and implementation plan are accepted by the market surveillance authority, the manufacturer shall proceed with the implementation of the technical solution as agreed with the market surveillance authority. When the technical solution and implementation plan fail to satisfy the market surveillance authority, the outcome shall be considered a 'fail'. The results of the investigation of attacks with a 'follow-up' outcome shall be brought to the attention of to the Forum for Exchange of Information on Enforcement as established in Regulation (EU) 2018/858. 3.3.5. Reporting, corrective and administrative measures following a 'fail' outcome
A 'fail' outcome upon an attack shall be investigated in detail, where necessary in cooperation with the manufacturer and the granting type-approval authority, to establish: (a) which vulnerabilities were exploited and whether these were identified at the time of type-approval; (b) in case that vulnerabilities were identified at the time of type-approval, whether the mitigation measures have been properly applied; (c) whether the vulnerabilities apply to other vehicle types with regard to emissions.
(10) A robust framework for the prohibition of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies should ensure that the emissions behaviour of vehicles is not altered between compliance testing and real-world driving, and that data on sensors, fuel or electric energy consumption, electric range, and battery durability remains accurate and reliable. It is therefore appropriate to set out general and technical requirements, as well as specific documentation requirements, to implement the prohibition of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies, and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of manufacturers, type-approval authorities, market surveillance authorities, the Commission and recognised third parties. (11) At market surveillance stage, screening tests for the presence of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies related to exhaust and evaporative emissions should focus on identifying situations where the vehicle detects test conditions followed by a change in the emissions control strategy and emissions behaviour that is not documented at type-approval. For the effective performance of such screening tests and assessment, it is appropriate that market surveillance authorities performing such tests should use a variety of testing approaches, and be able to evaluate the results of the screening by comparing them not to the emission limits set out in Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, but to specific thresholds based on technical considerations. (12) In order to ensure that the required type-approval information is consistently reflected, new examples for the Euro 7 type-approval related certificate numbering system should be introduced. For effective implementation, such as for registration purposes, the templates for the certificates of conformity should be adapted where necessary. Regulation (EU) 2020/683 should be amended accordingly. (13) In order to provide approval authorities, market surveillance authorities and registration authorities of the Member States and the manufacturers with sufficient time to implement this Regulation regarding Certificate of Conformity, the date of application of Annex XVIII should be deferred. (14) Whenever the measures provided for in this Regulation entail the processing of personal data, that processing should be carried out in accordance with Regulations (EU) 2016/679 (10) and (EU) 2018/1725 (11) of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as the relevant national law in accordance with those Regulations. (15) The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Technical Committee - Motor vehicles (TCMV),
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:
(2) 'periodically regenerating system' means an exhaust emissions control device (e.g. catalytic converter, particulate trap) that requires a periodic regeneration process;
The allowed Parameter Values for each family shall be recorded in the information document of the emissions type-approval (see Appendix 3 to Annex I) and in the Transparency list 1 of Appendix 5. The final-stage manufacturer shall only be allowed to use the base vehicle emission values if the completed vehicle remains within the allowed Parameter Values. The parameter values for each final vehicle shall be recorded in its Certificate of Conformity.

| Parameter Values | Allowed values from - to |
| Final Vehicle actual mass (in kg) |  |
|---|---|
| Final Vehicle technically permissible maximum laden mass (in kg) |  |
| Frontal area for final vehicle (in cm2) |  |
| Rolling resistance (kg/t) |  |
| Projected frontal area of air entrance of the front grille (in cm2) |  | If a completed or multistage special purpose vehicle is tested and the result of the test is below the applicable emission limit, the vehicle shall be considered as a pass for the ISC family for the purposes of point 5.10.3. If the result of the test on a completed or multistage special purpose vehicle exceeds the applicable emission limits but is not higher than 1,3 times the applicable emission limits, the tester shall examine whether that vehicle complies with the values in Table 3. Any non- compliance with these values shall be reported to the granting type-approval authority. If the vehicle does not comply with those values, the granting type-approval authority shall investigate the reasons for the non-compliance and take the appropriate measures regarding the manufacturer of the completed or multistage special purpose vehicle to restore conformity, including the withdrawal of the type-approval. If the vehicle complies with the values in Table 3, it shall be considered as a flagged vehicle for the in-service conformity family for the purposes of point 6.1. If the result of the test exceeds 1,3 times the applicable emission limits, shall be considered as a fail for the in-service conformity family for the purposes of point 6.1., but not as an outlier for the relevant ISC family. If the completed or multistage special purpose vehicle does not comply with the values in Table 3, this shall be reported to the granting type-approval authority, who shall investigate the reasons for the non-compliance and take the appropriate measures regarding the manufacturer of the completed or multistage special purpose vehicle to restore conformity, including the withdrawal of the type-approval.' 3.12. Section 6.1shall read as follows: '6.1. Within 10 working days of the end of the ISC testing for the sample as referred to in point 5.10.5, the granting type-approval authority shall start detailed investigations with the manufacturer in order to decide whether the ISC family (or part of it) complies with the ISC rules and whether it requires remedial measures. For multistage or special purpose vehicles the granting type-approval authority shall also perform detailed investigations when there are at least three faulty vehicles with the same fault or five flagged vehicles in the same ISC family, as set out in point 5.10.6.' 3.13. Section 7.6. shall read as follows: '7.6. If the granting type-approval authority does not approve the second plan submitted by the manufacturer, it shall take all appropriate measures, in accordance with Article 53 of Regulation (EU) 2018/858, to restore conformity, including withdrawal of type-approval where necessary.' 3.14. Point 4 in Appendix 3 shall read as follows: '4. Date of transmission to GTAA or upload to Electronic Platform'
3.15. The description in row ID 1 of Table 1 in Appendix 5 should read as follows: 'As reported on the model of the EU type-approval certificate in Annex I/Appendix 4 to this regulation'
3.16. The description in row ID 2 of Table 1 in Appendix 5 should read as follows: 'As reported in Annex I, Appendix 4, Section II, Point 0 to this regulation and in UN Regulation No 154 (*2), Annex A2, Addendum to type-approval communication item 0.1: Interpolation Family Identifier as defined in paragraph 6.2.1. of the same regulation
(*2) UN Regulation No 154 - Uniform provisions concerning the approval of light duty passenger and commercial vehicles with regards to criteria emissions, emissions of carbon dioxide and fuel consumption and/or the measurement of electric energy consumption and electric range (WLTP), 02 series of amendments (OJ L, 2022/2124, 10.11.2022, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2022/2124/oj).' "
3.17. The description in row ID 7 of Table 1 in Appendix 5 should read as follows: 'As reported in paragraph 0.2.3.4.1. of Annex A1 of UN Regulation No 154 for RL and paragraph 0.2.3.5. for RM' 3.18. The type of data in row ID 18, ID 19, ID 42 and ID 43 of Table 1 in Appendix 5 should read as follows: 'Possible formats: pdf, jpg.' 3.19. The description in row ID 33 of Table 1 in Appendix 5 should read as follows: 'Optional for NOVC and OVC-HEVs, correction of CS CO2 emissions as defined in paragraph 2 of Appendix 2 to Annex B8 of UN Regulation No 154' 3.20. Table 1 in Appendix 5 shall include additional rows between rows 44a and 49 as follows:

|  | For multistage or multistage special purpose vehicles | For multistage or multistage special purpose vehicles | For multistage or multistage special purpose vehicles | For multistage or multistage special purpose vehicles |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| '45 | Allowed final Vehicle mass in running order | Number | Kg | As reported in point 0.2.2.1 in Annex I of Regulation (EU) 2020/683 (*3) From-to |
| 45a | Allowed final Vehicle actual mass | Number | kg | As reported in point 0.2.2.1 in Annex I of Regulation (EU) 2020/683 From-to |
| 45b | Allowed Vehicle technically permissible maximum laden mass (in kg) | Number | kg | As reported in point 0.2.2.1 in Annex I of Regulation (EU) 2020/683 From-to |
| 46 | Allowed frontal area for final vehicle | Number | cm2 | As reported in point 0.2.2.1 in Annex I of Regulation (EU) 2020/683 From-to |
| 47 | Allowed Rolling resistance | Number | kg/t | As reported in point 0.2.2.1 in Annex I of Regulation (EU) 2020/683 From-to |
| 48 | Allowed projected frontal area of air entrance of the front grille | Number | cm2 | As reported in point 0.2.2.1 in Annex I of Regulation (EU) 2020/683 From-to |
|  | FOR ALL VEHICLES | FOR ALL VEHICLES | FOR ALL VEHICLES | FOR ALL VEHICLES | 3.2.1. Table 2 in Appendix 5 shall be read as follows:

| Field | Type of data | Description |
|---|---|---|
| TVV | Text | Unique identifier of the Type, Variant, Version of the vehicle as reported in point 0.2. of the Certificate of Conformity, Annex VIII to Regulation (EU) 2020/683, Appendix Part 1. |
| PEMS Family ID | Text | As reported in Annex III of this regulation, point 3.5.2. |
| Make | Text | Trade name of manufacturer, point 0.1 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2020/683. |
| Commercial name | Text | Commercial names of the TVV, point 0.2.1 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2020/683. |
| Other name | Text | Free text |
| Category and class | Enumeration (M1, N1 class I, N1 class II, N1 class III, N2, N3, M2, M3) | Category and class of vehicle, Annex I, Table 1 to Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. |
| Bodywork | Enumeration (AA Saloon; AB Hatchback, AC Station Wagon, AD Coupe, AE Convertible, AF Multi-purpose vehicle, AG Truck station wagon, BA Lorry, BB Van, BC Tractor unit for semi-trailer, BD Road tractor, BE Pick-up truck, BX Chassis-cab or chassis-cowl) | Type of bodywork, Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2020/683, point 0.3.0.2. |
| Emission TA Number | Text | As reported on the model of the EU type-approval certificate in Annex I/Appendix 4 to this regulation. |
| WVTA Number | Text | Identifier of the Whole Vehicle Type-Approval as defined in Annex IV to Regulation (EU) 2020/683. |
| Evap family ID | Text | As reported in paragraph 0.2.3.7 of Annex A1 of UN Regulation No 154 |
| Rated Engine Power fuel 1, fuel 2 (if relevant) | Number | Paragraph 3.2.1.8 of Annex A1 of UN Regulation No 154 |
The following sentence is added to paragraph 4.4.1.2 of Annex 8 to UN Regulation No 168: 'For those vehicles that are equipped with a device limiting vehicle speed to 90 km/h, medium-speed windows are characterized by average vehicle speeds vj lower than 70 km/h.' 3.14. The following sentence is added to paragraph 4.4.1.3 of Annex 8 to UN Regulation No 168: 'For those vehicles that are equipped with a device limiting vehicle speed to 90 km/h, high-speed windows are characterized by average vehicle speeds vj greater than or equal to 70 km/h and lower than 90 km/h.' (1) UN Regulation No 168 - Uniform provisions concerning the approval of light duty passenger and commercial vehicles with regards to real driving emissions (RDE) [2024/211] (OJ L, 2024/211, 12.1.2024, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/211/oj). (2) To be found in CIRCABC link: https://circabc.europa.eu/ui/group/f4243c55-615c-4b70- a4c8-1254b5eebf61/library/a0be83ba-89bd-4499-8189-2696362d2f72?p=1.
The approval of such emission control strategies relies on the concept of 'Auxiliary Emission Strategies' (AES), which is adapted from the Euro 6 legal framework. This Annex supports the documentation of AES and clarifies their role in aiding emissions measurement and monitoring through on-board monitoring systems (OBM). —
For market surveillance authorities: it sets a framework for the detection of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies using dedicated screening tests and enforcement measures to prevent the circumvention of Euro 7 requirements. —
For recognised third parties and the European Commission: it sets out roles in the performance of screening tests. 4.2. Roles and responsibilities of vehicle manufacturers
4.2.1. Manufacturers shall ensure the absence of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies related to emissions under the scope of this Regulation: manufacturers shall ensure that no vehicle is equipped with manipulation devices or strategies as defined in paragraphs 41 and 42 in Article 3 of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257. 4.2.2. Manufacturers shall document software updates to vehicles in service that reduce the effectiveness of emissions control strategies after type-approval. 4.2.3. Manufacturers shall disclose any software updates or calibrations affecting exhaust emissions control systems to the granting type-approval authority. 4.2.4. Manufacturers shall document Auxiliary Emission Strategies (AES) as part of type-approval as specified in paragraph 3 'Technical requirements - documentation'. 4.2.5. The manufacturer shall cooperate with the type-approval authority to allow them to select up to a maximum of 5 AES that will be monitored by OBM according to Annex I of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1707. 4.3. Roles and responsibilities of type-approval authorities
4.3.1. At the request of the manufacturer, the approval authority shall conduct a preliminary assessment of the AES for new vehicle types with regard to emissions, together with the selection of AES according to paragraph 4.2.5. In that case, the relevant documentation shall be provided to the type-approval authority between 2 and 12 months before the start of the type-approval process. 4.3.2. The type-approval authority shall make a preliminary assessment based on the extended documentation package, as described in point (b) of Appendix 2 to this Annex, provided by the manufacturer. The approval authority shall make the assessment in accordance with the methodology described in Appendix 1 to this Annex. The type-approval authority may deviate from that methodology in exceptional and duly justified cases. 4.3.3. The preliminary assessment of the AES for new vehicle types with regard to emissions shall remain valid for the purposes of type-approval for a period of 18 months. That period may be extended by the type-approval authority by a further 12 months at the request of the manufacturer. 4.3.4. In cooperation with the manufacturer, the type-approval authority shall select up to a maximum of 5 AES that will be monitored by OBM according to Annex I of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1707. The selection of AES shall prioritise those AES with the greatest expected impact by combination of their effect upon emissions when they are active and their expected rate of activation while the vehicles are in use. 4.3.5. The extended documentation package shall be identified and dated by the type-approval authority. If the extended documentation package is kept by the type-approval authority, it shall be retained for at least 10 years after the approval is granted. 4.3.6. The type-approval authority shall evaluate the documentation of software updates that reduce the effectiveness of emissions control strategies after type-approval and extend the approval as appropriate as long as the requirements continue to be met. 4.3.7. The type-approval authority may test the functionality of the AES flag or timer to indicate when a vehicle runs in AES mode instead of BES mode. 4.3.8. Type-approval authorities shall ensure a harmonised assessment of Auxiliary Emission Strategies (AES). A list of AES which were deemed non-acceptable by type-approval authorities shall be compiled yearly by the Forum for Exchange of Information on Enforcement and made available to the public by the Commission at the latest by end of March of the following year, in case there were AES which were deemed non-acceptable by the Forum. 4.4. Roles and responsibilities of market surveillance authorities
4.4.1. Market surveillance authorities may conduct screening tests to detect manipulation devices and manipulation strategies related to emissions. 4.4.2. Market surveillance authorities should decide case-by-case which methods are best suited, based on an appropriate risk assessment which considers possible non-compliance, the likelihood of its occurrence, and other possible indicators, like the severity of the occurrence. 4.4.3. The search for manipulation devices or strategies could include two distinct cases: Case A) 'Boundary detection': manipulation devices or strategies that use the regulated test boundaries or surrogates thereof as triggers (such as ambient temperature, altitude, trip duration, fuel consumed and driving dynamics ranges); or
Case B) 'Test detection': manipulation devices or strategies triggered by the presence of test equipment (e.g. backpressure increase at the tailpipe, signals on rear ultrasonic sensors, connection of a data recorder on the OBD port) or the vehicle localization (i.e. anything informing the vehicle that it is being tested on road for tailpipe emissions). These 'Test detection' manipulation devices or manipulation strategies apply primarily to on-road tests with PEMS, since vehicles tested in the laboratory usually need to use a special 'chassis dynamometer mode' to allow emissions testing without triggering safety devices, etc.
4.4.4. For all screening test campaigns, it shall be necessary, as a minimum, to include testing the vehicle with the regulatory methodologies. This is an important step to make sure that the vehicle is free of malfunctioning, poor maintenance or other similar issues, which would unduly increase the level of emissions. 4.4.5. To detect the presence of manipulation devices or strategies according to Case A, it is necessary that the vehicles are tested under variations of the regulated testing conditions referred to as 'modalities'. The set of modalities is not fixed but instead kept open due to the need to detect specific technology behaviours in response to a complex set of parameters and the need to keep an unpredictable character. 4.4.6. Market surveillance authorities shall enforce the prohibition of manipulation devices and manipulation strategies related to emissions. If a manipulation device or strategy related to emissions is identified, market surveillance authorities shall proceed in accordance with Chapter XI of Regulation (EU) 2018/858. 4.4.7. Market surveillance authorities shall ensure a uniform application of criteria for the assessment of screening tests by having regard to the latest version of the relevant non-binding guidance published by the European Commission and to the information available within the Forum for Exchange of Information on Enforcement. 4.5. Roles and responsibilities of the Commission and recognised third parties
4.5.1. The Commission and recognised third parties may conduct screening tests to detect manipulation devices and manipulation strategies related to emissions according to paragraph 4.4.1. 
(1) Regulation (EU) 2024/1257, recital (26).
(c) whether the vulnerabilities apply to other vehicle types with regard to emissions. The details of tests with a 'fail' outcome shall be reported to the manufacturer, and the market surveillance authorities shall require the manufacturer to take measures in accordance with Chapter XI of Regulation (EU) 2018/858 to ensure that the exploited vulnerability is effectively mitigated, preferably by an over-the-air software update of the relevant vehicle systems according to UN Regulation No 156 (4). In determining the appropriateness of corrective measures, authorities shall consider the state of technology of the vehicle type with regard to emissions, the technical feasibility of possible mitigations and the likelihood of exploitation of the vulnerability (approximated by the benefit-cost ratio of the attack). The manufacturer may, with appropriate supporting evidence, demonstrate that a vulnerability cannot be effectively mitigated or that an appropriate response from the tampering detection cannot be realised, due to technical limitations of the vehicle's architecture. If the manufacturer comprehensively demonstrates to the market surveillance authority that a mitigation is not technically feasible, the manufacturer shall not be required to provide corrective measures. The results of the investigation of attacks with a 'fail' outcome shall be brought to the attention of to the Forum for Exchange of Information on Enforcement as established in Regulation (EU) 2018/858. In case of vulnerabilities that cannot be effectively mitigated due to technical limitations are identified, the Forum for Exchange of Information on Enforcement shall consider requesting corresponding additional mitigations in future type approvals. 3.4. Roles and responsibilities for the Commission and recognised third parties
The Commission and recognised third parties may verify whether vehicles belonging to a certain vehicle type with regard to emissions are sufficiently protected against tampering attempts, security and cybersecurity attacks affecting the systems listed in Article 4(7) of Regulation (EU) 2024/1257 according to the methods described in paragraph 3.3.2.
4. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
4.1. Administrative provisions for anti-tampering, security and cybersecurity
Documentation to demonstrate compliance with paragraph 3.1 shall be made available by the manufacturer in two parts: (a) The formal documentation package for the approval, according to documentation requirements in UN Regulation No 155 paragraph 3.3, which shall be supplied to the type-approval authority at the time of submission of the type approval application. This documentation package shall be used by the type-approval authority as the basic reference for the approval process. The type-approval authority shall ensure that this documentation package remains available for at least 10 years counted from the time when production of the vehicle type (with regard to emissions) is definitively discontinued; (b) Additional material relevant to the requirements of this regulation may be retained by the manufacturer, but made open for inspection at the time of type-approval. The manufacturer shall ensure that any material made open for inspection at the time of type approval remains available for at least a period of 10 years counted from the time when production of the vehicle type (with regard to emissions) is definitively discontinued. In cases where information is shown to be covered by intellectual property rights or to constitute specific know-how of the manufacturer or of their suppliers, the manufacturer or their suppliers shall make available sufficient information to enable the checks referred to in this Regulation to be made properly. Such information shall be treated on a confidential basis. The manufacturer shall provide a manufacturer's declaration of compliance with the anti-tampering, security and cybersecurity requirements of this Regulation for the purposes of type-approval. This declaration shall use the format provided in Appendix 2 to this Annex. (1) UN Regulation No 155 - Uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regards to cyber security and cyber security management system (OJ L, 2025/5, 10.1.2025, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2025/5/oj). (2) Regulation No 39 of the Economic Commission for Europe of the United Nations (UN/ECE) - Uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the speedometer and odometer equipment including its installation [2018/1857] (OJ L 302, 28.11.2018, p. 106, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2018/1857/oj). (3) Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on the approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles (OJ L 151, 14.6.2018, p. 1, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2018/858/oj). (4) UN Regulation No 156 - Uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regards to software update and software updates management system [2021/388] (OJ L 82, 9.3.2021, p. 60, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2021/388/oj).
(3) 'mono fuel vehicle' means a vehicle that is designed to run primarily on one type of fuel;
| Field | Type of data | Description |
|---|---|---|
| Rated Engine Power fuel 1, fuel 2 (if relevant) | Number | Paragraph 3.2.1.8 of Annex A1 of UN Regulation No 154 |
| Twin tires | Yes/No | Declared by OEM. |
| Fuel Tank Capacities (discreet values) | Number | Fuel tank(s) capacity(ies), point 3.2.3.1.1 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2020/683. |
| Sealed tank | Yes/No | Point 3.2.12.2.5.5.3 of Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2020/683. |
| WMI used in this WVTA+TVV | Text | Declared by the OEM (ISO 3779) |
| OBM Family Identifier | Text | As affixed in the Declaration of Compliance with OBM, EVP and in-vehicle display of environmental data requirements of Annex III of Implementing Regulation (EU) 2025/1707' |

(*1) Directive 98/70/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 1998 relating to the quality of petrol and diesel fuels (OJ L 350, 28.12.1998, p. 58, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/dir/1998/70/oj).'
(*2) UN Regulation No 154 - Uniform provisions concerning the approval of light duty passenger and commercial vehicles with regards to criteria emissions, emissions of carbon dioxide and fuel consumption and/or the measurement of electric energy consumption and electric range (WLTP), 02 series of amendments (OJ L, 2022/2124, 10.11.2022, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2022/2124/oj).' '
(1) UN Regulation No 83 - Uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the emission of pollutants according to engine fuel requirements (OJ L, 2024/1312, 27.6.2024, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1312/oj). (2) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/163 of 7 February 2022 laying down rules on the application of Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards functional requirements for market surveillance of vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units (OJ L 27, 8.2.2022, p. 1, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2022/163/oj). (*3) Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2020/683 of 15 April 2020 implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/858 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regards to the administrative requirements for the approval and market surveillance of motor vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such vehicles (OJ L 163, 26.5.2020, p. 1, ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg_impl/2020/683/oj).'
(4) 'mono fuel gas vehicle' means a mono fuel vehicle that is designed primarily for permanent running on LPG or NG/biomethane or hydrogen, but may also have a petrol system for emergency purposes or starting only, where the nominal capacity of the petrol tank does not exceed 15 litres;
(5) 'bi fuel vehicle' means a vehicle with two separate fuel storage systems that is designed to run primarily on only one fuel at a time, however, the simultaneous use of both fuels is permitted in limited amount and duration;
(6) 'bi fuel gas vehicle' means a bi fuel vehicle where the two fuels are petrol (petrol mode) and either LPG, NG/biomethane, or hydrogen;
(7) 'flex fuel vehicle' means a vehicle with one fuel storage system that can run on different mixtures of two or more fuels;
(8) 'flex fuel ethanol vehicle' means a flex fuel vehicle that can run on petrol or a mixture of petrol and ethanol up to an 85 per cent ethanol blend (E85);
(9) 'malfunction indicator' or 'MI' means a visible or audible indicator that clearly informs the driver of the vehicle in the event of a malfunction of any emission-related component connected to the OBD system, or of the OBD system itself;
(10) 'deficiency' means, in the context of the OBD system, that up to two separate components or systems which are monitored contain temporary or permanent operating characteristics that impair the otherwise efficient OBD monitoring of those components or systems or do not meet all of the other detailed requirements for OBD;
(11) 'net power' means the power obtained on a test bench at the end of the crankshaft or its equivalent at the corresponding engine or motor speed with the auxiliaries, tested in accordance with Annex XX, and determined under reference atmospheric conditions;
(12) 'rated engine power' (Prated) means the maximum net power of the engine or motor in kW measured in accordance with the requirements of Annex XX;
(13) 'maximum 30 minutes power' means the maximum net power of an electric drive train at DC voltage as set out in paragraph
(14) 'Portable Emissions Measurement System' or 'PEMS' means a portable emissions measurement system meeting the requirements specified in Annex 4 to UN Regulation No 168
(15) 'permeability factor' or 'PF' means the factor determined on the basis of hydrocarbon losses over a period of time and used to determine the final evaporative emissions;
(16) 'Base Emission Strategy' or 'BES' means an emission strategy that is active throughout the speed and load operating range of the vehicle unless an Auxiliary Emission Strategy is activated;
(17) 'Auxiliary Emission Strategy' or 'AES' means an emission strategy that becomes active and replaces or modifies a BES for a specific purpose and in response to a specific set of ambient or operating conditions and only remains operational as long as those conditions exist.
(1) shall apply. 'Attacks' shall be understood as comprising tampering attempts, attempts to circumvent security and cyber-attacks.