Proposal for a EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND COUNCIL DIRECTIVE relating to the frontal impact resistance of motor vehicles and amending Directive 70/156/EEC /* COM/94/520FINAL - COD 94/0323 */
Proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive relating to the frontal impact resistance of motor vehicles and amending Directive 70/156/EEC (94/C 396/02) (Text with EEA relevance) COM(94) 520 final - 94/0323(COD)(Submitted by the Commission on 30 January 1995)THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community and in particular Article 100a,Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,Having regard to Council Directive 70/156/EEC of 6 February 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the type-approval of motor vehicles and their trailers (1), as last amended by Commission Directive 93/81/EEC (2), and in particular Article 13 (4) thereof,Whereas the internal market comprises an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital must be ensured; whereas total harmonization of technical requirements for motor vehicles is necessary in order fully to achieve that objective;Whereas in order to reduce the number of European road accident casualties it is necessary to introduce legislative measures for the improvement of vehicular crash worthiness as far as practicable; whereas this Directive introduces frontal impact test requirements, including biomechanical criteria, to ensure that a high level of frontal impact resistance is provided;Whereas in the 'Outcome of Proceedings` the Council Working Party on Economic Questions, in reaching a coordinated view prior to the 101st meeting of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (ECE) Working Party on the Construction of Motor Vehicles (WP29), confirmed their preference for a two-stage approach, reiterated their agreement to comply with the dates of 1 October 1995 for the first stage and 1 October 1998 for the second, and called upon the Commission to monitor the parallelism between Community regulations and the regulations of the ECE in Geneva (3).Whereas the aim of this Directive is to introduce requirements based on the results of research which will be published in 1995, allowing the establishment of test criteria more representative of actual road accidents;Whereas lead times are necessarily required by vehicle manufacturers for the implemention of acceptable test criteria as recently developed by the UNECE (4);Whereas the offset deformable barrier test criteria represents a significant enhancement of safety standards in respect of frontal impact; whereas the technical details are not yet finalized;Whereas in the meantime an intermediate standard, the 30° angled rigid barrier test, will provide an improved level of safety pending the finalization of the technical requirements for the offset deformable barrier test;Whereas this Directive will be one of the separate directives which must be complied with in order to conform to the EEC type-approval procedure established by Directive 70/156/EEC; whereas, consequently, the provisions laid down in Directive 70/156/EEC relating to vehicle systems, components and separate technical units apply to this Directive;Whereas the procedure for determining the reference point for seating positions in motor vehicles is given in Annex III to Council Directive 77/649/EEC (5), as last amended by Commission Directive 90/630/EEC (6), and consequently it is not necessary to repeat it in this Directive; whereas reference is made to Council Directive 77/541/EEC (7), as last amended by Commission Directive 90/628/EEC (8), Council Directive 76/115/EEC (9), as last amended by Commission Directive 90/629/EEC (10) and Council Directive 74/297/EEC (11), as last amended by Commission Directive 91/662/EEC (12), whereas reference is made to Code of Federal Regulations 49 CFR Part 572 (13),HAVE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE:Article 1 For the purposes of this Directive, 'vehicle` shall have the meaning given to it in Article 2 of Directive 70/156/EEC.Article 2 1. No Member State may, on grounds relating to frontal impact resistance:- refuse, in respect of a type of vehicle, to grant EEC type-approval or national type-approval, or- prohibit the registration, sale or entry into service of a vehicle,if it complies with the requirements of this Directive.2.

With effect from 1 October 1995, Member States:- shall not grant EEC type-approval in accordance with Article 4 of Directive 70/156/EEC, and- may refuse to grant national type-approval,unless the vehicle type satisfies the requirements of this Directive.3. Paragraph 2 shall not apply to vehicle types approved prior to 1 October 1995 pursuant to Directive 74/297/EEC, or subsequent extensions to this approval.4. With effect from 1 October 2000, Member States shall consider certificates of conformity which accompany new vehicles in accordance with Directive 70/156/EEC to be no longer valid for the purposes of Article 7 (1) of that Directive, if the requirements of this Directive are not fulfilled.Article 3 Annex IV to Directive 70/156/EEC is hereby amended as follows:1. in Part I, the following item is added:'>TABLE>`2. in Part II, the following item is added:'>TABLE>`.Article 4 1. In the framework of the adaptation of this Directive to technical progress, a second stage shall be adopted by the Commission. It shall be based on an impact test using an offset deformable barrier and biomechanical protection criteria as currently being developed by the European Experimental Vehicle Committee (EEVC), as outlined in Annex III to this Directive.2. This second stage shall be applicable at the request of manufacturers on an optional basis from 1 October 1996 and shall be mandatory for new vehicle types approved from 1 October 1998.3. This second stage shall be applicable to all new vehicles from 1 October 2003, subject to a report from the Commission to the European Parliament and Council to be made no later than 1 October 2001 on the operation of the Directive and the industrial feasibility of the above date.Article 5 1. Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 1 October 1995. They shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof.When Member States adopt these provisions, these shall contain a reference to this Directive or shall be accompanied by such reference at the time of their official publication. The procedure for such reference shall be adopted by Member States.2. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.Article 6 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.Article 7 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.(1) OJ No L 42, 23. 2. 1970, p. 1.(2) OJ No L 264, 23. 10. 1993, p. 49.(3) Outcome of Proceedings 8930/93, 30. 9. 1993.(4) UNECE Regulation R.XX TRANS/SC1/WP29/392.(5) OJ No L 267, 19. 10. 1977, p. 1.(6) OJ No L 341, 6. 12. 1990, p. 20.(7) OJ No L 220, 29. 8. 1977, p. 95.(8) OJ No L 341, 6. 12. 1990, p. 1.(9) OJ No L 24, 30. 1. 1976, p. 6.(10) OJ No L 341, 6. 12. 1990, p. 14.(11) OJ No L 165, 20. 6. 1974, p. 16.(12) OJ No L 366, 31. 12. 1991, p. 1.(13) United States of America Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49, Chapter V, Part 572; obtainable from the United States Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.ANNEX I ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS FOR TYPE-APPROVAL 1. APPLICATION FOR EEC TYPE-APPROVAL1.1.
The procedure for such reference shall be adopted by Member States.2. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.Article 6 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.Article 7 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.(1) OJ No L 42, 23. 2. 1970, p. 1.(2) OJ No L 264, 23. 10. 1993, p. 49.(3) Outcome of Proceedings 8930/93, 30. 9. 1993.(4) UNECE Regulation R.XX TRANS/SC1/WP29/392.(5) OJ No L 267, 19. 10. 1977, p. 1.(6) OJ No L 341, 6. 12. 1990, p. 20.(7) OJ No L 220, 29. 8. 1977, p. 95.(8) OJ No L 341, 6. 12. 1990, p. 1.(9) OJ No L 24, 30. 1. 1976, p. 6.(10) OJ No L 341, 6. 12. 1990, p. 14.(11) OJ No L 165, 20. 6. 1974, p. 16.(12) OJ No L 366, 31. 12. 1991, p. 1.(13) United States of America Code of Federal Regulations, Title 49, Chapter V, Part 572; obtainable from the United States Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.ANNEX I ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS FOR TYPE-APPROVAL 1. APPLICATION FOR EEC TYPE-APPROVAL1.1. The application for EEC type-approval pursuant to Article 3 (4) of Directive 70/156/EEC of a vehicle type with regard to its frontal impact resistance shall be submitted by the manufacturer.1.2. A model for the information document is given in Appendix 1.1.3. A vehicle representative of the vehicle type to be approved shall be submitted to the technical service responsible for conducting the type-approval tests.1.4. The manufacturer shall be entitled to present any data and results of tests carried out which make it possible to establish that compliance with the requirements can be achieved with a sufficient degree of confidence.2. GRANTING OF EEC TYPE-APPROVAL2.1. If the relevant requirements are satisfied, EEC type-approval pursuant to Article 4 (3) and, if applicable, 4 (4) of Directive 70/156/EEC shall be granted.2.2. A model for the EEC type-approval certificate is given in Appendix 2.2.3. An approval number in accordance with Annex VII to Directive 70/156/EEC shall be assigned to each type of vehicle approved. The same Member State shall not assign the same number to another type of vehicle.2.4. In case of doubt, account shall be taken, when verifying the compliance of the vehicle with the requirements of this Directive, of any data or test results provided by the manufacturer which can be taken into consideration in validating the approval test carried out by the approval authority.3. MODIFICATION OF THE TYPE AND AMENDMENTS TO APPROVALS3.1. In the case of modification of a vehicle type approved pursuant to this Directive, the provisions of Article 5 of Directive 70/156/EEC shall apply.3.2. Any modification of the vehicle affecting the general form of the structure of the vehicle and/or increase in mass greater than 8 % which in the judgement of the authority would have a marked influence on the results of the tests shall require a repetition of the test as described in Appendix 1 of Annex II.3.3. If the modifications concern only the interior fittings, if the mass does not differ by more than 8 % and if the number of front seats initially provided in the vehicle remains the same, the following shall be carried out:3.3.1. a simplified test as provided for in Appendix 4 of Annex II and/or;3.3.2. a partial test as defined by the technical service in relation to the modifications made.4. CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION4.1. As a general rule, measures to ensure the conformity of production shall be taken in accordance with the provisions laid down in Article 10 of Directive 70/156/EEC.Appendix 1 Information document No . . . pursuant to Annex I to Council Directive 70/156/EEC (1*) relating to the EEC type-approval of a vehicle with respect to frontal impact resistanceThe following information, if applicable, must be supplied in triplicate and include a list of contents. Any drawings must be supplied in appropriate scale and in sufficient detail on size A4 or on a folder of A4 format. Photographs, if any, must show sufficient detail.If the systems, components or separate technical units have electronic controls, information concerning their performance must be supplied.0. GENERAL0.1. Make (trade name of manufacturer):0.2. Type and general commercial description(s):0.3. Means of identification of type, if marked on the vehicle:0.3.1. Location of that marking:0.4. Category of vehicle:0.5. Name and address of manufacturer:0.8. Address(es) of assembly plant(s):1. GENERAL CONSTRUCTION CHARACTERISTICS OF THE VEHICLE1.1. Photographs and/or drawings of a representative vehicle:1.6. Position and arrangement of the engine:9. BODYWORK9.1. Type of bodywork:9.2. Materials used and methods of construction:9.10. Interior fittings:9.10.3. Seats:9.10.3.1. Number:9.10.3.2. Position and arrangement:Date, fileAppendix 2 MODEL(maximum format: A4 (210 × 297 mm)EEC TYPE-APPROVAL CERTIFICATE >START OF GRAPHIC>Stamp of administration>END OF GRAPHIC>Communication concerning the (2)- type-approval- extension of type-approval- refusal of type-approval- withdrawal of type-approvalof a type of vehicle/component/separate technical unit (3) with regard to Directive . ./. . ./EEC, as last amended by Directive . ./. . ./EECType-approval number:Reason for extension:SECTION I0.1. Make (trade name of manufacturer):0.2. Type and general commercial description(s):0.3. Means of identification of type, if marked on the vehicle/component/separate technical unit (4) (5):0.3.1. Location of that marking:0.4. Category of vehicle (6):0.5. Name and address of manufacturer:0.7. In the case of components and separate technical units, location and method of affixing of the EEC type-approval mark:0.8. Address(es) of assembly plant(s):SECTION II1. Additional information (where applicable) (see Addendum):2. Technical service responsible for carrying out the tests:3. Date of test report:4. Number of test report:5. Remarks (if any) (see Addendum):6. Place:7. Date:8. Signature:9. The index to the information package lodged with the approval authority, which may be obtained on request, is attached.Addendum to EEC type-approval certificate No . . . concerning the type-approval of a vehicle with regard to Directive . ./. . ./EEC 1. Additional information:1.1. Brief description of the vehicle type as regards its structure, dimensions, lines and constituent materials:1.2. Description of the protective system installed in the vehicle:1.3. Description of the interior arrangements or fittings that might affect the test:1.4. Site of engine: forward/rear/central (7)1.5. Drive: front-wheel/rear-wheel (8)1.6. Mass of vehicle submitted for testing:Front axle:Rear axle:Total:5. Remarks: (e.g., valid for left-hand drive and right-hand drive vehicles)(1*) The item numbers and footnotes used in this information document correspond to those set out in Annex I to Directive 70/156/EEC.Items not relevant for the purposes of this Directive are omitted.(2) Delete where not applicable.(3) If the means of identification of type contains characters not relevant to a description of the vehicle, component or separate technical unit types covered by this type-approval certificate, such characters shall be represented in the documentation by the symbol '?` (e. g. ABC??123???).(4) As defined in Annex II A to Directive 70/156/EEC.(5) Delete where not applicable.ANNEX II TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 30° angled rigid barrier test 1. SCOPE1.1.
Remarks: (e.g., valid for left-hand drive and right-hand drive vehicles)(1*) The item numbers and footnotes used in this information document correspond to those set out in Annex I to Directive 70/156/EEC.Items not relevant for the purposes of this Directive are omitted.(2) Delete where not applicable.(3) If the means of identification of type contains characters not relevant to a description of the vehicle, component or separate technical unit types covered by this type-approval certificate, such characters shall be represented in the documentation by the symbol '?` (e. g. ABC??123???).(4) As defined in Annex II A to Directive 70/156/EEC.(5) Delete where not applicable.ANNEX II TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS 30° angled rigid barrier test 1. SCOPE1.1. This Directive applies to power-driven vehicles of category M1 of a total permissible mass not exceeding 2,5 tonnes, with the exception of multi-stage build vehicles produced in quantities not exceeding those fixed for a small series; heavier vehicles and multi-stage build vehicles may be approved at the request of the manufacturer.2. DEFINITIONSFor the purposes of this Directive:2.1. 'protective system` means interior fittings and devices intended to restrain the occupants and contribute towards ensuring compliance with the requirements set out in paragraph 3;2.2. 'type of protective system` means a category of protective devices which do not differ in such essential respects as:their technology,their geometry,their constituent materials;2.3. 'angle of impact` means the angle between a line drawn perpendicular to the front face of the barrier and the line along which the vehicle is travelling in a longitudinal forward direction;2.4. 'barrier face` means the face of the element immediately behind the plywood facing;2.5. 'anti-slide devices` means steel-profiles mounted vertically to the 'barrier face` as specified in Appendix 1. Their purpose is to reduce the lateral movement of the vehicle relative to the barrier during impact;2.6. 'vehicle type` means a category of power-driven vehicles which do not differ in such essential respects as:2.6.1. the length and width of the vehicle, in so far as they have a negative effect on the results of the impact test prescribed in this Directive;2.6.2. the structure, dimensions, lines and materials of the part of the vehicle forward of the transverse plane through the 'R` point of the driver's seat in so far as they have a negative effect on the results of the impact test prescribed in this Directive;2.6.3. the lines and inside dimensions of the passenger compartment and the type of protective system, in so far as they have a negative effect on the results of the impact test prescribed in this Directive;2.6.4. the siting (front, rear or centre) and the orientation (transversal or longitudinal) of the engine;2.6.5. the mass, in so far as there is a negative effect on the result of the impact test prescribed in this Directive;2.6.6. the optional arrangements or fittings provided by the manufacturer, in so far as they have a negative effect on the result of the impact test prescribed in this Directive;2.7. 'passenger compartment` means the space for occupant accommodation, bounded by the roof, floor, side walls, doors, outside glazing and the bulkhead and the plane of the rear compartment bulkhead or the plane of the rear-seat back support;2.8. 'R` point means a reference point defined for each seat by the manufacturer in relation to the vehicle's structure;2.9. 'H` point means a reference point determined for each seat by the testing service responsible for approval;2.10. 'unladen kerb mass` means the mass of the vehicle in running order, unoccupied and unladen but complete with fuel, coolant, lubricant, tools and a spare wheel (if these are provided as standard equipment by the vehicle manufacturer);2.11. 'multi-stage build` means the procedure whereby two or more manufacturers separately and sequentially participate in the construction of a vehicle.3. SPECIFICATIONS3.1. General specifications applicable to all tests3.1.1. The 'H` point for each seat shall be determined in accordance with the procedure described in Annex III to Council Directive 77/649/EEC.3.1.2. When the protective system for the front seating positions includes belts, the belt components shall meet the requirements of Directive 77/541/EEC, as amended.3.1.3. Seating prositions where a dummy is installed and the protective system includes belts, shall be provided with anchorage points conforming to Directive 76/115/EEC, as amended.3.2. Specifications3.2.1. The performance criteria recorded, in accordance with Appendix 2, on the dummies in the front outboard seats shall meet the following conditions:3.2.1.1. the head performance criterion (HPC) shall be less than or equal to 1 000;3.2.1.2. the thorax performance criterion (ThPC) shall be less than or equal to 75 mm;3.2.1.3. the femur performance criterion (FPC) shall be less than or equal to 10 kN.3.2.2. During the test no door shall open.3.2.3. During the test no locking of the locking systems of the front doors shall occur.3.2.4. After the impact it shall be possible, without the use of tools:3.2.4.1. to open at least one door per seat row if the door exists, and where necessary, tilt the seat-backs or seats to allow the evacuation of all the occupants (1);3.2.4.2. to release the dummies from the restraint system, which, if locked, shall be capable of being opened by a maximum pressure of 6 daN on the release control;3.2.4.3. to remove the dummes intact from the vehicle.3.2.5. No more than slight leakage of liquid from the fuel feed installation shall occur on collision.3.2.6. If there is continuous leakage of liquid from the fuel-feed installation after the collision, the rate of leakage shall not exceed 5 × 10-4 kg/s; if the liquid from the fuel-feed system mixes with liquids from the other systems and the various liquids cannot easily be separated and identified, all the liquids collected shall be taken into account in evaluating the continuous leakage.Appendix 1 TEST PROCEDURE1. INSTALLATION AND PREPARATION OF THE VEHICLE1.1. Testing groundThe test area shall be large enough to accommodate the run-up track, barrier and technical installations necessary for the test. The last part of the track, for at least 5 m before the barrier, shall be horizontal, flat and smooth.1.2. BarrierThe barrier shall consist of a block of reinforced concrete not less than 3 m wide in front and not less than 1,5 m high. The barrier shall be of such thickness that its mass is not less than 7 × 104 kg. The front face shall be vertical; a line drawn perpendicular to the face shall form an angle of 30° with the line which the vehicle travels in a longitudinal forward direction, and the face shall be covered with plywood boards 20 mm thick in good condition. In addition, the ASD (steel profiles 40/40 mm) shall be mounted vertically at a distance of 350 mm left and right of the theoretical point of impact of the vehicle's longitudinal plane of symmetry (see Figure 1). The barrier shall be anchored in the ground with, if necessary, additional arresting devices to prevent its displacement.1.3. Orientation of the barrierThe orientation of the angle of 30° shall be such that the first contact of the vehicle with the barrier shall be on the steering-column side. Where there is a choice between carrying out the test with a right-hand or left-hand drive vehicle, the test shall be carried out with the less favourable orientation as determined by the official laboratory responsible for the tests.1.4. State of vehicle1.4.1. General specificationThe test vehicle shall be representative of the series production, shall include all the equipment normally fitted and shall be in normal running order.
Where there is a choice between carrying out the test with a right-hand or left-hand drive vehicle, the test shall be carried out with the less favourable orientation as determined by the official laboratory responsible for the tests.1.4. State of vehicle1.4.1. General specificationThe test vehicle shall be representative of the series production, shall include all the equipment normally fitted and shall be in normal running order. Some components may be replaced by equivalent masses where this substitution clearly has no noticeable effect on the results measured under paragraph 6.1.4.2. Mass of vehicle1.4.2.1. For the test, the mass of the vehicle submitted shall be the unladen kerb mass.1.4.2.2. The fuel tank shall be filled with water to mass equal to 90 % of the mass of a full tank as specified by the manufacturer.1.4.2.3. All the other systems (brake, cooling, etc.) may be empty; in this case the mass of the liquids shall be offset.1.4.2.4. If the mass of the measuring apparatus on board the vehicle exceeds the 25 kg allowed, it may be compensated by reductions which have no noticeable effect on the results measured under paragraph 6.1.4.2.5. The mass of the measuring apparatus shall not change each axle reference load by more than 5 %, each variation not exceeding 20 kg.1.4.2.6. The mass of the vehicle resulting from the provisions of paragraph 1.4.2.1 shall be indicated in the report.1.4.3. Passenger compartment adjustments1.4.3.1. Position of steering wheelThe steering wheel, if adjustable, shall be placed in the normal position indicated by the manufacturer or, failing that, midway between the limits of its range(s) of adjustment. At the end of propelled travel, the steering wheel shall be left free, with its spokes in the position which according to the manufacturer corresponds to straight-ahead travel of the vehicle.1.4.3.2. GlazingThe movable glazing of the vehicle shall be in the closed position. For test measurement purposes and in agreement with the manufacturer, it may be lowered, provided that the position of the operating handle corresponds to the closed position.1.4.3.3. Gear-change leverThe gear-change lever shall be in the neutral position.1.4.3.4. PedalsThe pedals shall be in their normal position of rest.1.4.3.5. DoorsThe doors shall be closed but not locked.1.4.3.6. Opening roofIf an opening or removable roof is fitted, it shall be in place and in the closed position. For test measurement purposes and in agreement with the manufacturer, it may be open.1.4.3.7. Sun-visorThe sun-visors shall be in the stowed position.1.4.3.8. Rear-view mirrorThe interior rear-view mirror shall be in the normal position of use.1.4.3.9. Arm-restsArm-rests at the front and rear, if movable, shall be in the lowered position, unless this is prevented by the position of the dummies in the vehicles.1.4.3.10. Head restraintsHead restraints adjustable for height shall be in their uppermost position.1.4.3.11. Seats1.4.3.11.1. Position of front seatsSeats adjustable longitudinally shall be placed so that their 'H` point (see 3.1.1) is in the middle position of travel or in the nearest locking position thereto, and at the height position defined by the manufacturer (if independently adjustable for height). In the case of a bench seat, the reference shall be to the 'H` point of the driver's place.1.4.3.11.2. Position of the front seat-backsIf adjustable, the seat-backs shall be adjusted so that the resulting inclination of the torso of the dummy is as close as possible to that recommended by the manufacturer for normal use or, in the absence of any particular recommendation by the manufacturer, to 25° towards the rear from the vertical.1.4.3.11.3. Rear seatsIf adjustable, the rear seats or rear bench seats shall be placed in the rearmost position.2. DUMMIES2.1. Front seats2.1.1. A dummy corresponding to the specifications for Hybrid III (2) and meeting the specifications for its adjustment shall be installed in each of the front outboard seats in accordance with the conditions set out in Appendix 3. The dummy shall be equipped for recording the data necessary to determine the performance criteria with measuring systems corresponding to the specifications in Appendix 5.2.1.2. The adjustment of the dummy shall be approximately the same before and after the test.2.1.3. The car will be tested with restraint systems, as provided by the manufacturer.3. PROPULSION OF VEHICLE3.1. The vehicle shall not be propelled by its own engine.3.2. At the moment of impact the vehicle shall no longer be subject to the action of any additional steering or propelling device.3.3. It shall reach the obstacle on a course which is not more than 150 mm laterally out of line with the theoretical course in either direction.4. TEST SPEEDVehicle speed at the moment of impact shall be 50 + 0, - 2 km/h. However, if the test was performed at a higher impact speed and the vehicle met the requirements, the test shall be considered satisfactory.5. MEASUREMENTS TO BE MADE ON DUMMY IN FRONT SEATS5.1. All the measurements neccesary for the verification of the performance criteria shall be made with measurement systems corresponding to the specifications of Appendix 5.5.2. The different parameters shall be recorded through independent data channels of the following CFC (channel frequency class):5.2.1. Measurements in the head of the dummyThe acceleration (a) referring to the centre of gravity is calculated from the triaxial components of the acceleration measured with a CFC of 1 000.5.2.2. Measurements in the thorax of the dummyThe chest deflection shall be measured with a CFC of 180.5.2.3. Measurements in the femur of the dummyThe axial compression force shall be measured with a CFC of 600.6. MEASUREMENTS TO BE MADE ON THE VEHICLE6.1. To enable the simplified test described in Appendix 4 to be carried out, the deceleration time history of the structure shall be determined on the basis of the value of the longitudinal accelerometers at the base of the 'B` pillar on the struck side of the vehicle with a CFC of 180 by means of data channels corresponding to the requirements set out in Appendix 5.6.2. The speed time history which will be used in the test procedure described in Appendix 4 shall be obtained from the longitudinal accelerometer at the 'B` pillar on the struck side.Figure 1 30° barrier with ASD (anti-slide devices) >START OF GRAPHIC>>END OF GRAPHIC>Appendix 2 DETERMINATION OF PERFORMANCE CRITERIA1. HEAD PERFORMANCE CRITERION (HPC)1.1. This criterion is considered to be satisfied when, during the test, there is no contact between the head and any vehicle component.1.2. If that is not the case, a calculation of the value of HPC is made, on the basis of the acceleration (a), measured according to Annex II, Appendix 1, paragraph 5.2.1, by the following expression:>START OF GRAPHIC>>END OF GRAPHIC>in which:1.2.1. if the beginning of the head contact can be determined satisfactority, t1 and t2 are the two time instants, expressed in seconds, defining an interval between the beginning of the head contact and the end of the recording for which the value of HPC is maximum;1.2.2. if the beginning of the head contact cannot be determined, t1 and t2 are the two time instants, expressed in seconds, defining a time interval between the beginning and the end of the recording for which the value of HPC is maximum.2. THORAX PERFORMANCE CRITERION (ThPC)2.1. This criterion is determined by the absolute value of the thorax deformation, expressed in mm and measured according to Annex II, Appendix 1, paragraph 5.2.2.3. FEMUR PERFORMANCE CRITERION (FPC)3.1. This criterion is determined by the compression load expressed in kN, transmitted axially on each femur of the dummy and measured according to Annex II, Appendix 1, paragraph 5.2.3.Appendix 3 ARRANGEMENT AND INSTALLATION OF DUMMIES AND ADJUSTMENT OF RESTRAINT SYSTEMS1. ARRANGEMENT OF DUMMIES1.1.
ARRANGEMENT OF DUMMIES1.1. Separate seatsThe plane of symmetry of the dummy shall coincide with the vertical median plane of the seat.1.2. Front bench seat1.2.1. DriverThe plane of symmetry of the dummy shall lie in the vertical plane passing through the steering wheel centre and parallel to the longitudinal median plane of the vehicle. If the seating position is determined by the shape of the bench, such seat shall be regarded as a separate seat.1.2.2. Outer passengerThe plane of symmetry of the dummy shall be symmetrical with that of the driver dummy relative to the longitudinal median plane of the vehicle. If the seating position is determined by the shape of the bench, such seat shall be regarded as a separate seat.1.3. Bench seat for front passsengers (not including driver)The planes of symmetry of the dummy shall coincide with the median planes of the seating positions defined by the manufacturer.1.4. Rear bench seatThe dummy shall be placed in a longitudinal plane substantially corresponding to the place of symmetry of the driver dummy.2. INSTALLATION OF DUMMIES2.1. HeadThe transverse instrumentation platform of the head shall be horizontal within 0,5°. To level the head of the test dummy in vehicles with upright seats with non-adjustable backs, the following sequences must be followed. First adjust the position of the H-point within the limits set forth in paragraph 2.4.3.1 of this Appendix to level the transverse instrumentation platform of the head of the test dummy. If the transverse instrumentation platform of the head is still not level, then adjust the pelvic angle of the test dummy within the limits provided in paragraph 2.4.3.2 of this Appendix. If the transverse instrumentation platform of the head is still not level, then adjust the neck bracket of the test dummy the minimum amount necessary to ensure that the transverse instrumentation platform of the head is horizontal within 0,5°.2.2. Arms2.2.1. The driver's upper arms shall be adjacent to the torso with the centre-lines as close to a vertical plane as possible.2.2.2. The passenger's upper arms shall be in contact with the seat back and the sides of the torso.2.3. Hands2.3.1. The palms of the driver test dummy shall be in contact with the outer part of the steering wheel rim at the rim's horizontal centre-line. The thumbs shall be over the steeering wheel rim and shall be lightly taped to the steering wheel rim so that if the hand of the test dummy is pushed upward by a force of not less than 8,9 N and not more than 22,2 N, the tape shall release the hand from the steering wheel rim.2.3.2. The palms of the passenger test dummy shall be in contact with outside of thigh. The little finger shall be in contact with the seat cushion.2.4. Torso2.4.1. In vehicles equipped with bench seats, the upper torso of the driver and passenger test dummies shall rest against the seat back. The mid-sagittal plane of the driver dummy shall be vertical and parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centre-line, and pass through the centre of the steering wheel rim. The mid-sagittal plane of the passenger dummy shall be vertical and parallel to the vehicle's longitudinal centre-line and the same distance from the vehicle's longitudinal centre-line as the mid-sagittal plane of the driver dummy.2.4.2. In vehicles equipped with individual seats, the upper torso of the driver and passenger test dummies shall rest against the seat back. The mid-sagittal plane of the driver and the passenger dummy shall be vertical and shall coincide with the longitudinal centre-line of the individual seat.2.4.3. Lower torso2.4.3.1. H-pointThe H-point of the driver and passenger test dummies shall coincide within 13 mm in the vertical dimension and 13 mm in the horizontal dimension of a point 6 mm below the position of the H-point except that the length of the thigh and lower leg segments of the H-point machine shall be adjusted to 414 and 401 mm, instead of the 432 and 417 mm respectively.2.4.3.2. Pelvic angleAs determined using the pelvic angle gauge (3) inserted into the H-point gauging hole of the dummy, the angle measured from the horizontal on the 76,2 mm flat surface of the gauge shall be 22,5° ± 2,5°.2.5. LegsThe upper legs of the driver and passenger test dummies shall rest against the seat cushion to the extent permitted by placement of the feet. The initial distance between the outboard clevis flange surfaces shall be 269 mm. To the extent practicable, the left leg of the driver dummy and both legs of the passenger dummy shall be in vertical longitudinal planes. To the extent practicable, the right leg of the driver dummy shall be in a vertical plane. Final adjustment to accommodate placement of feet in accordance with paragraphe 2.6 for various passenger compartment configurations is permitted.2.6. Feet2.6.1. The right foot of the driver test dummy shall rest on the undepressed accelerator with the rearmost point of the heel on the floor surface in the plane of the pedal. If the foot cannot be placed on the accelerator pedal, it shall be positioned perpendicular to the tibia and placed as far forward as possible in the direction of the centre-line of the pedal with the rearmost point of the heel resting on the floor surface. The heel of the left foot shall be placed as far forward as possible and shall rest on the floor pan. The left foot shall be positioned as flat as possible on the toeboard. The longitudinal centre-line of the left foot shall be placed as parallel as possible to the longitudinal centre-line of the vehicle.2.6.2. The heels of both feet of the passenger test dummy shall be placed as far forward as possible and shall rest on the floor pan. Both feet shall be positioned as flat as possible on the toeboard. The longitudinal centre-line of the feet shall be placed as parallel as possible to the longitudinal centre-line of the vehicle.2.7. The measuring instruments installed shall not in any way affect the movement of the dummy during inpact.2.8. The temperature of the dummies and the system of measuring instruments shall be stabilized before the test and maintained so far as possible within a range between 19 and 22 °C.3. ADJUSTMENT OF RESTRAINT SYSTEMWith the test dummy at its designated seating position as specified by the appropriate requirements of paragraphs 2.1 through 2.6, place the belt around the test dummy and fasten the latch. Remove all slack from the lap belt. Pull the upper torso webbing out of the retractor and allow it to retract. Repeat this operation four times. Appyl a tension load of between 8,9 and 17,8 N to the lap belt. If the belt system is equipped with a tension-relieving device, introduce the maximum amount of slack into the upper torso belt that is recommended by the manufacturer for normal use in the owner's manual for the vehicle. If the belt system is not equipped with a tension-relieving device, allow the excess webbing in the shoulder belt to be retracted by the retractive force of the retractorAppendix 4 TEST PROCEDURE WITH TROLLEY1. TEST INSTALLATION AND PROCEDURE1.1. TrolleyThe trolley shall be so constructed that no permanent deformation appears after the test. It shall be so guided that, during the impact phase, the deviation in the vertical plane does not exceed 5° and 2° in the horizontal plane.1.2. State of the structure1.2.1. GeneralThe structure tested shall be representative of the series production of the vehicles concerned.
It shall be so guided that, during the impact phase, the deviation in the vertical plane does not exceed 5° and 2° in the horizontal plane.1.2. State of the structure1.2.1. GeneralThe structure tested shall be representative of the series production of the vehicles concerned. Some components may be replaced or removed where such replacement or removal clearly has no effect on the test results.1.2.2. AdjustmentsAdjustments shall conform to those set out in paragraph 1.4.3 of Appendix 1 to this Directive, taking into account what is stated in paragraph 1.2.1.1.3. Attachment of the structure1.3.1. The structure shall be firmly attached to the trolley in such a way that no relative displacement occurs during the test.1.3.2. The method used to fasten the structure to the trolley shall not have the effect of strengthening the seat anchorages or restraint devices, or of producing any abnormal deformation of the structure.1.3.3. The attachment device recommended is that whereby the structure rests on supports placed approximately in the axis of the wheels or, if possible, whereby the structure is secured to the trolley by the fastenings of the suspension system.1.3.4. The angle between the longitudinal axis of the vehicle and the trolley shall be 12 ± 2° from the struck vehicle.1.4. DummiesThe dummies and their positioning shall conform to the specifications in Appendix 1, paragraph 2.1.5. Measuring apparatus1.5.1. Deceleration of the structureThe position of the transducers measuring the deceleracion of the structure during the impact shall be parallel to the longitudinal axis of the trolley according to the specifications of Appendix 5 (CFC 180).1.5.2. Measurements to be made on the dummiesAll the measurements necessary for checking the listed criteria are set out in Appendix 1, paragraph 5.1.6. Deceleration curve of the structureThe deceleration curve of the structure during the impact phase shall be such that the 'variation of speed in relation to time` curve obtained by integration at no point differs by more than ± 1m/s from the 'variation of speed in relation to time` reference curve of the vehicle concerned as defined in Figure 1 of this Appendix. A displacement with regard to the time axis of the reference curve may be used to obtain the structure velocity inside the corridor.1.7. Reference curve AV = f(t) of the vehicle concernedThis reference curve is obtained by integration of the deceleration curve of the vehicle concerned measured in the frontal collision test against a barrier as provided for in paragraph 6 of Appendix 1 to this Directive.1.8. Equivalent methodThe test may be performed by some other method than that of deceleration of a trolley, provided that such method complies with the requirement concerning the range of variation of speed described in paragraph 1.6.Figure 1 Equivalence curve - Tolerance band for curve V = f(t) >START OF GRAPHIC>>END OF GRAPHIC>Appendix 5 TECHNIQUE OF MEASUREMENT IN MEASUREMENT TESTS INSTRUMENTATION1. DEFINITIONS1.1. Data channelA data channel comprises all the instrumentation from a transducer (or multiple transducers whose outputs are combined in some specified way) up to and including any analysis procedures that may alter the frequency content or the amplitude content of data.1.2. TransducerThe first device in a data channel used to convert a physical quantity to be measured into a second quantity (such as an electrical voltage) which can be processed by the remainder of the channel.1.3. Channel amplitude class: CACThe designation for a data channel that meets certain amplitude characteristics as specified in this Appendix. The CAC number is numerically equal to the upper limit of the measurement range.1.4. Characteristic frequencies FH, FL, FNThese frequencies are defined in Figure 1.1.5. Channels frequency class: CFCThe channel frequency class is designated by a number indicating that the channel frequency response lies within the limits specified in Figure 1. This number and the value of the frequency FH in Hz are numerically equal.1.6. Sensitivity coefficientThe slope of the straight line representing the best fit to the calibration values determined by the method of least square within the channel amplitude class.1.7. Calibration factor of a data channelThe mean value of the sensitivity coefficients evaluated over frequencies which are evenly spaced on a logarithmic scale between FL and 0,4 FH.1.8. Linearity errorThe ratio, in per cent, of the maximum difference between the calibration value and the corresponding value read on the straight line defined in paragraph 1.6 at the upper limit of the channel amplitude class.1.9. Cross sensitivityThe ratio of the output signal to the input signal, when an excitation is applied to the transducer perpendicular to the measurement axis. It is expressed as a percentage of the sensitivity along the measurement axis.1.10. Phase delay timeThe phase delay time of a data channel is equal to the phase delay (in radians) of a sinusoidal signal, divided by the angular frequency of that signal (in radians/s).1.11. EnvironmentThe aggregate, at a given moment, of all external conditions and influences to which the data channel is subjected.2. PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS2.1. Linearity errorThe absolute value of the linearity error of a data channel at any frequency in the CFC, shall be equal to or less than 2,5 % of the value of the CAC, over the whole measurement range.2.2. Amplitude against frequencyThe frequency response of a data channel shall lie within the limiting curves given in Figure 1. The zero dB is determined by the calibration factor.2.3. Phase delay timeThe phase delay time between the input and the output signals of a data channel shall be determined and shall not vary by more than 0,1 FHs between 0,03 FH and FH.2.4. Time2.4.1. Time baseA time base shall be recorded and shall at least give 10 ms with an accuracy of 1 %.2.4.2. Relative time delayThe relative time delay between the signal of two or more data channels, regardless of their frequency class, must not exceed 1 ms excluding delay caused by phase shift.Two or more data channels of which the signals are combined shall have the same frequency class and shall not have relative time delay greater than 0,1 FHs.This requirement applies to analogue signals as well as to synchronization pulses and digital signals.2.5. Tranducer cross sensitivityThe transducer cross sensitivity shall be less than 5 % in any direction.2.6. Calibration2.6.1. GeneralA data channel shall be calibrated at least once a year against reference equipment traceable to known standards. The methods used to carry out a comparison with reference equipment shall not introduce an error greater than 1 % of the CAC. The use of the reference equipment is limited to the frequency range for which they have been calibrated. Subsystems of a data channel may be evaluated individually and the results factored into the accuracy of the total data channel.
Subsystems of a data channel may be evaluated individually and the results factored into the accuracy of the total data channel. This can be done for example by an electrical signal of known amplitude simulating the output signal of the transducer which allows a check to be made on the gain factor of the data channel, excluding the transducer.2.6.2. Accuracy of reference equipment for calibrationThe accuracy of the reference equipment shall be certified or endorsed by an official metrology service.2.6.2.1. Static calibration2.6.2.1.1. AccelerationsThe errors shall be less than ± 1,5 % of the channel amplitude class.2.6.2.1.2. ForcesThe error shall be less than ± 1 % of the channel amplitude class.2.6.2.1.3. DisplacementsThe error shall be less than ± 1 % of the channel amplitude class.2.6.2.2 Dynamic calibration2.6.2.2.1. AccelerationsThe error in the reference accelerations expressed as a percentage of the channel amplitude class shall be less than ± 1,5 % below 400 Hz, less than ± 2 % between 400 and 900 Hz, and less than ± 2,5 % above 900 Hz.2.6.2.3. TimeThe relative error in the reference time shall be less than 10-5.2.6.3. Sensitivity coefficient and linearity errorThe sensitivity coefficient and the linearity error shall be determined by measuring the output signal of the data channel against a known input signal for various values of this signal. The calibration of the data channel shall cover the whole range of the amplitude class.For bi-directional channels both the positive and negative values shall be used.If the calibration equipment cannot produce the required input owing to the excessively high values of the quantity to be measured, calibrations shall be carried out within the limits of the calibration standards and these limits shall be recorded in the test report.A total data channel shall be calibrated at a frequency or at a spectrum of frequencies having a significant value between FL and 0,4 FH.2.6.4. Calibration of the frequency responseThe response curves of phase and amplitude against frequency shall be determined by measuring the output signals of the data channel in terms of phase and amplitude against a known input signal, for various values of this signal varying between FL and 10 times the CFC or 3 000 Hz, whichever is lower.2.7. Environmental effectsA regular check shall be made to identify any environmental influence (such as electric or magnetic flux, cable velocity, etc.). This can be done for instance by recording the output of spare channels equipped with dummy transducers. If significant output signals are obtained corrective action shall be taken, for instance by replacement of cables.2.8. Choice and designation of the data channelThe CAC and CFC define a data channel.The CAC shall be 1, 2 or 5 to a power of 10.3. MOUNTING OF TRANSDUCERSTransducers should be rigidly secured so that their recordings are affected by vibration as little as possible. Any mounting having a lowest resonance frequency equal to at least five times the frequency FH of the data channel considered shall be considered valid. Acceleration transducers in particular should be mounted in such a way that the initial angle of the real measurement axis to the corresponding axis of the reference axis system is not greater than 5° unless an analytical or experimental assessment of the effect of the mounting on the collected data is made. When multi-axial accelerations at a point are to be measured, each acceleration transducer axis should pass within 10 mm of that point, and the centre of seismic mass of each accelerometer should be within 30 mm of that point.4. RECORDING4.1. Analogue magnetic recorderTape speed should be stable to within not more than 0,5 % of the tape speed used. The signal-to-noise ratio of the recorder should not be less than 42 dB at the maximum tape-speed. The total harmonic distortion should be less than 3 % and the linearity error should be less than 1 % of the measurement range.4.2. Digital magnetic recorderTape speed should be stable to within not more than 10 % of the tape speed used.4.3. Paper tape recorderIn case of direct data recording the paper speed in mm/s should be at least 1,5 times the number expressing FH in Hz. In other cases the paper speed should be such that equivalent resolution is obtained.5. DATA PROCESSING5.1. FilteringFiltering corresponding to the frequencies of the data channel class may be carried out during either recording or processing of data. However, before recording, analogical filtering at a higher level than CFC should be effected in order to use at least 50 % of the dynamic range of the recorder and to reduce the risk of high frequencies saturating the recorder or causing aliasing errors in the digitilizing process.5.2. Digitilizing5.2.1. Sampling frequencyThe sampling frequency should be equal to at least 8 FH. In the case of analogue recording, when the recording and reading speeds are different, the sampling frequency can be divided by the speed ratio.5.2.2. Amplitude resolutionThe size of digital words should be at least seven bits and a parity bit.6. PRESENTATION OF RESULTSThe results should be presented on A4 size paper (210×297 mm). Results presented as diagrams should have axes sealed with a measurement unit corresponding to a suitable multiple of the chosen unit (for example, 1, 2, 5, 10, 20 mm). SI units shall be used, except for vehicle velocity, where km/h may be used, and for accelerations due to impact where g, with g = 9,81 m/s², may be used.Figure 1 Frequency response curve >START OF GRAPHIC>>END OF GRAPHIC>(1) This requirement shall not apply to vehicles not having a roof of rigid construction.(2) The technical specifications and detailed drawings of Hybrid III, corresponding to the principal dimensions of a fiftieth percentile male of the United States of America, and the specifications for its adjustment for this test are deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations and may be consulted on request at the secretariat of the Economic Commission for Europe, Palais des Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.(3) Until an international standard has been adopted for this item, gauges conforming to GM drawing 78051-532, referencing part 572, shall be used.ANNEX III OUTLINE REQUIREMENTS Offset deformable barrier test In accordance with Article 4 of this Directive, the outline requirements of the offset deformable barrier test (ODBT), as developed by EEVC, are set out in this Annex and will be finalized when the validation stage of the work of is complete.Annex III will follow the general arrangement of Annex II, and include the following items particular to the ODBT.1. SCOPEUnchanged2. DEFINITIONSDefinitions of terms 'overlap`, 'deformable barrier face`, 'vehicle width` and 'offset of the impact` shall be included.3. SPECIFICATIONSThe performance requirements to be met shall be defined and shall include, inter alia, head performance criterion (HPC), thorax compression criterion (TCC), viscous criterion (VC), neck injury criterion (NIC), femur force criterion (FFC), tibia compression force criterion (TFCC) and residual steering wheel displacement.Addendums shall be added for the NIC and FFC and the procedure for calculating VC.Appendix 1 - Test procedureThe design specification of the barrier to be used shall be defined in an addendum to this Appendix. This will include the size, shape, material and internal construction of the complete assembly that shall be attached to the front face of the concrete test block.
This will include the size, shape, material and internal construction of the complete assembly that shall be attached to the front face of the concrete test block. A procedure for certifying the aluminium honeycomb structure shall also be included.The test speed shall be in the range 56 to 60 km/h and the vehicle overlap shall be 40 %.Measurements shall be made in the femur and tibia of the dummy.Appendix 2 - Determination of performance criteriaA time base for the determination of the femur performance criteria shall be added together with a new paragraph to cover tibia compressive force criterion.Appendix 3 - Installation of dummies and restraint systemsUnchangedAppendix 4 - Test procedure with trolleyThe angle between the longitudinal axis of the vehicle and the direction of motion of the trolley shall be 0° ± 1°.Appendix 5 - Technique of measurementUnchanged