Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from compression ignition engines for use in vehicles, and the emission of gaseous pollutants from positive-ignition engines fuelled with natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas for use in vehicles (Recast version) /* COM/2003/0522 final - COD 2003/0205 */
Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from compression-ignition engines for use in vehicles, and the emission of gaseous pollutants from positive-ignition engines fuelled with natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas for use in vehicles (Recast version)(presented by the Commission)EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM1.

OBJECTIVE OF THE PROPOSALAs requested in Articles 4 to 7 of Council Directive 88/77/EEC [1], as amended by European Parliament and Council Directive 1999/96/EC [2], the objective of the proposal is to strengthen Community requirements aimed at limiting polluting emissions from new heavy-duty engines for use in vehicles through the introduction of:[1] OJ L 36, 9.2.1988, p. 33.[2] OJ L 44, 16.2.2000, p. 1.- new technical requirements and procedures for assessing the durability of heavy-duty engine emission control systems over periods of defined useful life;- new technical requirements and procedures for assessing the in-service conformity of heavy-duty engine emission control systems over defined useful life period appropriate for the vehicle in which the engine is installed; and- new technical requirements for on-board diagnostic (OBD) systems for new heavy-duty vehicles and engines.These requirements are presently governed by Directive 88/77/EEC, as last amended by Commission Directive 2001/27/EC [3].[3] OJ L 107, 18.4.2001, p. 10.The Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions having the title "updating and simplifying the Community acquis" [4] identifies, as a priority area for simplification of Community legislation, the type-approval system for motor vehicles. The modernisation of Directive 88/77/EEC is specifically listed in the Commission work programme.[4] COM (2003) 71 final, 11.2.2003.Directive 88/77/EEC has undergone four amendments and Council Directive 91/542/EEC of 1 October 1991 [5] and European Parliament and Council Directive 1999/96/EC [6] have introduced provisions which, while being autonomous, have a strong link to the scheme established under Directive 88/77/EEC.[5] OJ L 295, 25.10.1991, p. 1.[6] OJ L 44, 16.2.2000, p. 1.It is therefore appropriate to increase the legibility of Directive 88/77/EEC on this occasion of amendment by recasting it at a time when the European Community is about to embrace new members and when a major global agreement [7] on the establishing of international technical regulations has been concluded in Geneva.[7] Agreement concerning the Establishing of Global Technical Regulations for Wheeled Vehicles, Equipment and Parts which can be fitted and/or be used on Wheeled Vehicles of 25 June 1998.Directive 88/77/EEC will therefore be repealed by this Directive.The existing annexes laid down in Directive 88/77/EEC and the amendments necessary to introduce the new technical requirements described above are therefore recast according to the Inter-Institutional Agreement of 28 November 2001 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on a more structured use of the recasting technique for legal acts [8].[8] OJ C 77, 28.3.2002, p. 1.2. NEW REGULATORY APPROACH2.1. Split-level approachTraditionally, proposals for Directives in the field of motor vehicle construction and type-approval, in accordance with Article 251 of the Treaty, laid down not only the fundamental provisions, but also specified the technical specifications applicable to motor vehicles in a great deal of detail. As a result the European Parliament and the Council had to study more voluminous and technically more complex pieces of draft legislation than if the technical details had otherwise been omitted.This proposal is structured in a different way compared to existing Directives covering the type-approval of motor vehicles. It constitutes an effort to improve the efficiency of the decision-making process and simplify the proposed legislation, so that the European Parliament and the Council can focus more on the political direction and content whilst leaving the Commission with the task of adopting the appropriate requirements that would implement such political direction and content.To this end, a "split-level approach" has been followed in this proposal, where the proposal and adoption of legislation will be made according to two different, but parallel, routes:- on the one hand, the fundamental provisions would be laid down by the European Parliament and the Council in a Directive based on Article 251 of the Treaty through the co-decision procedure (hereafter termed the 'co-decision proposal');- on the other hand, the technical specifications implementing the fundamental provisions would be laid down in a Directive adopted by the Commission with the assistance of a regulatory committee (hereafter termed the 'comitology proposal').The delegation of executive powers to the Commission for adaptation to technical progress of Directives in the area of motor vehicle type-approval is provided for in Article 13 of the type-approval framework Directive 70/156/EEC [9], as amended by Directive 92/53/EEC [10]. The present proposal refers, in Article 6, to the procedure provided in Article 13 of the framework Directive for the adoption by the Commission of implementing measures as well as the adaptation to technical progress of existing ones.[9] OJ L 42, 23.2.1970, p. 1.[10] OJ L 225, 10.8.1992, p. 1.Accordingly, it should be noted that for the purposes of this and future proposals, any requirement which the Commission considers to directly affect the emissions of gaseous and particulate pollutants from an engine will always be contained within a co-decision proposal to the co-legislators.3. BACKGROUNDDirective 1999/96/EC of the European Parliament and the Council laid down three stages of emission limit values for new heavy-duty engines for use in vehicles, to be carried out on three new test cycles. The European Steady [state] Cycle (ESC), European Load Response [test] (ELR) and the European Transient Cycle (ETC) are the applicable cycles for measuring emissions of carbon monoxide (CO), total hydrocarbons (THC), oxides of nitrogen (NOx), particulates (PT) and smoke opacity. On the ETC test, non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHC) are also measured (but the same limit value for NMHC may instead be used for total hydrocarbons); methane (CH4) is also measured in the case of gas engines.The first two stages of emission limit values, widely given the assignation 'Euro 3' and 'Euro 4', are applicable to new types of heavy-duty engines from October 2000 and 2005 and all types of heavy-duty engines from October 2001 and October 2006. A third level of standards that provides more stringent NOx limits only (the other emission limits from Euro 4 carry-forward), and given the assignation 'Euro 5', is applicable to all types of heavy-duty engines from October 2009.
A third level of standards that provides more stringent NOx limits only (the other emission limits from Euro 4 carry-forward), and given the assignation 'Euro 5', is applicable to all types of heavy-duty engines from October 2009. However, Article 7 of Directive 1999/96/EC requires the Euro 5 limits to be confirmed by the Commission [by the end of 2002].Articles 4 to 7 of Directive 1999/96/EC require the Commission to come forward with proposals on a number of technical issues:Article 4: provisions for on-board diagnostic (OBD) systems;Article 5: provisions for ensuring the durability of the emission control system of a heavy-duty vehicle engine;Article 6: provisions for ensuring the in-service conformity of the emission control system of a heavy-duty engine.In addition, Article 7 requires the Commission to take account of a number of pertinent factors:- the review processes set out in Article 3 of Directive 98/69/EC and Article 9 of Directive 98/70/EC;- the development of compression-ignition engine and gas engine emission control technology and the interdependence of such technology with fuel quality;- the need to improve the accuracy and repeatability of the current measurement and sampling procedures for very low levels of particulates from engines;- the development of a world-wide harmonised test cycle for type-approval testing;- appropriate limits for pollutants currently not regulated as a consequence of the widespread introduction of new alternative fuels.As noted above, the Commission is due to confirm the NOx limit of 2.0 g/kWh set for mandatory application from 1 October 2008 (Euro 5) for all new type-approvals and 1 October 2009 for all new heavy-duty vehicles and engines.At that time, the Commission will also report on the development of a world-wide harmonised test cycle for the type-approval testing of heavy-duty engines and, if appropriate, accompany the report with a proposal to introduce such a harmonised test cycle at an appropriate time.Article 7 of Directive 1999/96/EC also requires the Commission to bring forward proposals for pollutants currently not regulated as a consequence of the widespread introduction of 'new' alternative fuels. While Directive 1999/96/EC laid down specific emission limits for heavy-duty vehicles or engines using natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas and Directive 2001/27/EC included the technical provisions to allow for the type-approval of heavy-duty vehicles or engines using ethanol, there has been little widespread introduction of what could be described as 'new' alternative fuels.In total, less than 1,000 alternative-fuelled engines were produced in the EU in 2000, mostly natural gas engines for the bus market. This represents less than 3% of the EU bus production, and 0.02% of the combined truck and bus production. Several manufacturers plan to certify their future alternative-fuelled engines as Enhanced Environmentally [friendly] Vehicles (EEV). By 2005 no major EU heavy-duty vehicle manufacturer is expected to produce any ethanol vehicles. Current production is only around 25 per annum.The review of the 2008 NOx emission limit, foreseen in Article 7 of Directive 1999/96/EC, will broadly address the issue of emissions of non-regulated pollutants as a consequence of the introduction of new exhaust emission control systems to meet the 2008 emission standards.Therefore, emission limits for presently non-regulated pollutants are not introduced in this proposal. However, as stated in Article 7 of this proposal, the Commission will keep under review the need to introduce new emission limits for presently unregulated pollutants as a consequence of a wider introduction of new alternative fuels and the introduction of new exhaust emission control systems to meet the future standards laid down in Directive 88/77/EEC.The application of measures applied to the transport sector that may be developed through the Commission's contact group on alternative fuels will also have a bearing on this review [11].[11] Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on alternative fuels for road transportation and on a set of measures to promote the use of biofuels, COM(2001) 547 final, 7.11.2001.4. CONTENT OF THE PROPOSAL4.1. Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and the CouncilThe co-decision proposal will be a recasting of Directive 88/77/EEC according to the Inter-Institutional Agreement referred to in section 1 and, in addition, will contain the new fundamental provisions according to the split-level approach. It will contain the following:4.1.1. Definitions - Article 1The definitions are as laid down in Directive 1999/96/EC, as last amended by Directive 2001/27/EC.4.1.2. Obligations of the Member States - Article 2Article 2 of the proposal recasts the dates of application for the present legal requirements applicable to compression-ignition and gas engines and vehicles propelled by compression-ignition or gas engines. Measures which applied from 1 October 2000 and 1 October 2001, as laid down in Directive 1999/96/EC, are now already in force and therefore only the measures and not the dates are referred to in Articles 2(1), 2(2) and 2(3).For gas engines, the application of the Euro 3 emission limits given in the tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I to Directive 88/77/EEC (as amended by Directive 1999/96/EC) were laid down in Article 2(2) of the same Directive for new type-approvals (1 October 2000) and Article 2(3) for all type-approvals (1 October 2001).Directive 2001/27/EC subsequently introduced amendments to the technical annexes of Directive 88/77/EEC specifically with respect to gas engines and which take effect for all gas engine type-approvals from 1 October 2003. Up until this date, a gas engine that has a type-approval according to the previous Directive (1999/96/EC) will remain applicable. Gas engine manufacturers are complying today with the new technical requirements laid down in Directive 2001/27/EC for new type-approvals, to avoid the need to re-approve when the requirements of Directive 2001/27/EC for gas engines take effect from 1 October 2003.Existing type-approvals will not become invalid through the repeal of Directives 88/77/EEC, 91/542/EC and 1999/96/EC as a consequence of this recasting (see Article 9 and Annex XIII (table of correspondence) of the proposal).4.1.3. Durability of emission control systems - Article 3Directive 88/77/EEC does not presently include any durability requirements for heavy-duty engines. The heavy-duty engine itself is inherently reliable and, when maintained properly, retains its emissions performance over extremely long periods of use. However, the future emission standards laid down in Directive 1999/96/EC will require the widespread use of exhaust aftertreatment technology to comply with more stringent emission standards.It is likely that a combination of Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR) and/or Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) together with a diesel particulate filter (DPF), diesel oxidation catalyst and possibly advanced turbocharging will become common solutions to meet the Euro 4 emission limits. Some engines may meet the requirements using SCR alone.SCR is expected to be universally used to meet the Euro 5 emission limits, in combination with a diesel particulate filter and diesel oxidation catalyst, but some engines may meet the requirements using SCR alone.Amongst many criteria, the use of SCR offers fuel efficiency gains over other options such as EGR plus DPF, but, EGR plus DPF does not depend on the use of a chemical reagent to achieve efficient conversion of NOx emissions. The choice of Euro 4 technology by most heavy-duty engine manufacturers seems still to be an open question and the issue of diesel fuel sulphur content is a major factor. Perhaps there will be other, more efficient, technical solutions developed over time.
Perhaps there will be other, more efficient, technical solutions developed over time. However, at this time it seems that the solutions mentioned above will be used in different vehicle duty-cycle applications for at least the Euro 4 stage. EGR plus DPF is perhaps more likely for urban vehicle applications while a solution involving SCR is likely for long-haul applications.What is clear is that in the future the emissions performance of the engine will be highly dependent on the aftertreatment system. Hence, requirements for assessing the durability of the emission control system should now be included in Directive 88/77/EEC.In this respect the Commission is proposing that the useful-life or durability periods for engines to be fitted into category N1, N2, N3, M2 and M3 vehicles be defined as follows, where 'useful-life' is defined as the period of distance and/or time over which compliance with the relevant gaseous, particulate and smoke emission limits has to be assured, as part of the requirements of type-approval for a particular engine type:- For engines to be fitted into vehicles of category N1, the useful-life period is defined as 100 000 km or five years, whichever is the sooner.Directives 88/77/EEC and 70/220/EEC allow for the type-approval of category N1 vehicles to one or the other Directive. Therefore, the useful-life period for engines to be fitted into category N1 vehicles should align with the period laid down in Directive 70/220/EEC, as amended by Directive 98/69/EC. In the case of Directive 70/220/EEC, the useful-life period of 100 000 km or five years of use, whichever is the sooner, is applicable from 1 January 2005.- For engines to be fitted into vehicles of category N2 and M2, the useful-life period is defined as 200 000 km or six years, whichever is the sooner.- For engines to be fitted into vehicles of category N3 and M3, the useful-life period is defined as 500 000 km or seven years, whichever is the sooner.The requirement to demonstrate emission compliance over the applicable useful-life period will take affect from 1 October 2005 for new type-approvals and 1 October 2006 for all type-approvals.Over the years, manufacturers have increased substantially the mechanical durability of heavy-duty engines such that they can be used for many thousands of hours or hundreds of thousands of kilometres before rebuild is necessary. In addition, the annual distance travelled, especially by the heavier heavy-duty vehicles, or long-haul commercial vehicles, has increased significantly such that these vehicles will reach high distances more quickly. Manufacturer's servicing information indicates that the major servicing intervals for heavy-duty engines used in long haul operations are expected to be anything from 250 000 to 450 000 km (10 000 to 18 000 hours use). Vehicles having different duty cycles will generally have different servicing intervals. In-house development targets now approach some 1 million kilometres for engine reliability.Although the Commission could perhaps justify a very high useful-life period based on how long engines are lasting today without rebuild, the Commission believes that somewhat lower useful-life periods should be specified. Engine manufacturers will have to comply with new emission standards in 2005 and 2008 such that the use of emission aftertreatment systems will be commonplace on practically all engines used on the road. Extremely long useful-life periods could compromise the feasibility of the future standards and limit the number of potential aftertreatment technical solutions which may exhibit other beneficial characteristics such as low fuel penalty or even fuel savings (compared to Euro 3 engines). At this stage the Commission does not see any need to review or modify in the future the useful-life distances being proposed here.Of course, the end of useful-life does not mean the end of good in-use emissions performance so the provision of OBD (as described in section 4.1.5) and improved annual roadworthiness testing will help to ensure emission control systems continue to operate properly, even when vehicles are in the hands of their second, third or more owners.Not all heavy-duty engines are used in long-haul commercial vehicles that accumulate distance travelled very quickly. Heavy-duty engines are used in many different types of vehicles that operate solely in urban areas, for example, refuse collection vehicles and some types of buses. Such vehicles accumulate distance at a much slower rate than long-haul commercial vehicles. For example, the Braunschweig city driving cycle which simulates urban bus driving [12] has an average speed of 22.9 km/h (including idling time) and Commission statistics [13] show an average distance travelled of some 47 000 km per annum for urban buses.[12] AB Svensk Bilprovning Motortestcenter, Report 9707, 1997.[13] EU Transport in Figures, 2000.A useful-life of 500 000 km might therefore, on its own, be excessive because of the slow rates of distance accumulation of such vehicles. However, a useful-life of seven years would seem appropriate in this case. For such urban applications, the duty cycle would be repeated engine running for nearly all of its daily operation and which is also of a relatively low temperature profile that may inhibit adequate regeneration events for a diesel particulate filter or deNOx device.It is therefore appropriate to cover vehicles that accumulate distance slowly within the '500 000 km or seven years of use, whichever occurs first' criteria.If the technical measures being adopted through comitology to implement the fundamental provisions laid down for durability are delayed beyond the date of adoption of this co-decision Directive (a date of 30 June 2004 is proposed in this Article for adoption of the technical measures via comitology), the transposition date shown in Article 8(1) and the application date shown in the second sub-paragraph of Article 8(1) of the co-decision Directive should be aligned with that of the comitology Directive. It is essential that both Directives are applied by Member States at the same time.4.1.4. On-board diagnostic systems (OBD) - Article 4Technical requirements for OBD applied to 'medium heavy-duty' vehicles are applicable today through specifications that are laid down in the Federal requirements in the United States, but only for vehicles up to 14 000 pounds gross vehicle weight (6 363 kg). There are no requirements for OBD on what are perceived to be heavy heavy-duty vehicles, i.e. those vehicles up to 40 tonnes gross vehicle weight and above.In Europe, emissions compliance at the time of type-approval is assessed by testing the engine alone (without auxiliaries and the gearbox) whereas in real life an OBD system has to perform its functions on the whole vehicle. The Commission believes it is premature to mandate an all-embracing heavy-duty vehicle OBD concept for emissions control from 2005 because of concerns still to be addressed regarding sensor development and performance for emission aftertreatment devices, especially NOx and ammonia sensors for deNOx devices and particulate sensors (if one is likely to be available) for diesel particulate filters. Hence, it is proposed to deal with heavy-duty vehicle and engine OBD in two stages to allow system development.First stage of OBD:The first stage is applicable to new compression-ignition engines seeking type-approval according to the emission limits laid down in row B1 of the tables in section 6.2.1. of Annex I to this Directive. The OBD requirements therefore apply from 1 October 2005 for new type-approvals and 1 October 2006 for all type-approvals.
The OBD requirements therefore apply from 1 October 2005 for new type-approvals and 1 October 2006 for all type-approvals. The first stage is also applicable from the same dates for compression-ignition engines seeking type-approval according to the permissive EEV emission limits laid down in row C of the tables in section 6.2.1. of Annex I to this Directive.For the first stage, it is proposed that the OBD system should monitor the functioning of the engine against fixed threshold limits, as is the case for diesel engine OBD in Directive 70/220/EEC. In addition, any emission aftertreatment system downstream of the engine should be monitored for major functional failure. Requiring only monitoring of the emission aftertreatment system for major functional failure is based on the premise that sensor technology to monitor performance related to excess emissions will not be fully developed for industrial application in 2005. As part of the type-approval, the manufacturer will be required to provide the technical service or type-approval authority with an analysis of potential failures within the emission control system that will have an effect on emissions.Second stage of OBD:The second stage is applicable to new compression-ignition engines and gas engines seeking type-approval according to the emission limits laid down in row B2 of the tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I to this Directive. The OBD requirements therefore apply from 1 October 2008 for new type-approvals and 1 October 2009 for all type-approvals. The second stage is also applicable from the same dates for compression-ignition and gas engines seeking type-approval according to the permissive EEV emission limits laid down in row C of the tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I to this Directive.However, in the second stage, the OBD system should monitor the functioning of the engine and the exhaust aftertreatment system downstream of the engine against fixed threshold limits. However, according to the right of initiative of the Commission, the second stage OBD thresholds applicable from October 2008 will be subject to review of the development of sensor and emission control technology.In this second stage the engine-aftertreatment OBD system will be expanded to cover the vehicle to take account of the inputs received from other vehicle systems that may have an influence on the functioning of the total emission control system.OBD threshold values are proposed for the emission of NOx and particulate only as these are the two main pollutants of interest for heavy-duty vehicles equipped with compression-ignition engines. Emissions of CO and HC are relatively trivial in comparison with NOx and particulates. OBD threshold limits are proposed for the type-approval of engines complying with the 2005 and the 2008 limits and also for the type-approval of an engine installed in a vehicle complying with the permissive EEV standards. However, as noted above, the 2008 (row B2) and EEV (row C) OBD thresholds will be subject to review.At this stage it is not possible to define the OBD technical requirements and OBD thresholds for gas-engines. The Commission will bring forward a proposal in this regard at a later date including OBD threshold values for other pollutants relevant to gas engines. However, it is already proposed here that gas-engine OBD be required from October 2008 for new type-approvals, to stimulate OBD system development and also to allow the gas vehicle market to continue to develop in the EU without additional development targets being imposed.Within the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UN-ECE), discussions are now in progress towards adopting a Global Technical Regulation (GTR) for heavy-duty vehicle OBD. The timetable for having a draft GTR is still some way off (June 2004) and it may be several years before a GTR is actually implemented. However, when that work is finished, appropriate technical amendments will need to be considered to align the European heavy-duty vehicle OBD requirements on a global basis. Where possible, the comitology proposal described in section 4.2.3 should take into account progress in the GTR group with respect to the technical requirements for OBD.If the technical measures being adopted through comitology to implement the fundamental provisions laid down for OBD are delayed beyond the date of adoption of this co-decision Directive (a date of 30 June 2004 is proposed in this Article for adoption of the technical measures via comitology), the transposition date shown in Article 8(1) and the application date shown in the second sub-paragraph of Article 8(1) of the co-decision Directive should be aligned with that of the comitology Directive. It is essential that both Directives are applied by Member States at the same time.4.1.5. Provisions for tax incentives - Article 5The existing text of Article 3 of Directive 1999/96/EC regarding tax incentives is repeated in a revised format in this proposal and amended to delete reference to row A of the tables in 6.2.1 of Annex I since the emission limit values given in row A are now mandatory for all vehicles covered by the scope of this proposal.In this proposal, appropriate reference is also made in recitals 11 and 12 to the Articles of the Treaty concerning State Aids granted by Member States.4.1.6. Implementation measures and amendments - Article 6Article 6 states that the Commission will adopt the measures necessary for the implementation of this Directive and any future amendments necessary to adapt this Directive to scientific and technical progress through reference to the committee and the procedures established in Articles 13(1) and 13(3) of the type-approval framework Directive (70/156/EEC).The comitology proposal will therefore implement the requirements of this co-decision proposal by laying down the procedures for establishing:- compliance with the useful-life (durability) requirements of Article 3;- conformity of the in-use emissions performance of an engine. This measure is not specified within this co-decision proposal since, although it will be based on the durability requirements, it is a purely technical issue and therefore a matter for the comitology proposal only;- the conformity of OBD systems, in line with Article 4. In addition, reference is made here to the issue of ensuring unrestricted and standardised access to the OBD system for inspection, diagnosis, servicing and repairs, commensurate with the measures introduced, or being introduced, in Directive 70/220/EEC and appropriate requirements relating to replacement parts to ensure compatibility with vehicles equipped with OBD systems.- In addition, the comitology proposal will include the necessary measures to improve the laboratory procedures for the sampling and measurement of particulate mass as a consequence of the low particulate emission limits applicable from 1 October 2005.
In addition, reference is made here to the issue of ensuring unrestricted and standardised access to the OBD system for inspection, diagnosis, servicing and repairs, commensurate with the measures introduced, or being introduced, in Directive 70/220/EEC and appropriate requirements relating to replacement parts to ensure compatibility with vehicles equipped with OBD systems.- In addition, the comitology proposal will include the necessary measures to improve the laboratory procedures for the sampling and measurement of particulate mass as a consequence of the low particulate emission limits applicable from 1 October 2005. The comitology proposal will also revise the specifications for the reference fuels used for type-approval testing to better reflect the sulphur content of diesel fuel that will be available on the market from 2005 (in line with the decisions already taken in the regulatory committee with reference to Directive 70/220/EEC).- Also, the comitology proposal may contain:- an amendment to the test cycle used for OBD demonstration based on the development of a World Harmonised Duty Cycle (WHDC) and its progress to being a global technical regulation, and;- an amendment to provide for the use of OBD as an effective in-use conformity checking tool and appropriate requirements for OBD-compatible replacement parts.- It is also stated that the measures taken with respect to OBD will be adopted with a view to the world-wide harmonisation of the OBD requirements for heavy-duty vehicles and engines (see second last paragraph of section 4.1.4).4.1.7. Review and reports - Article 7Several of the reporting tasks laid down in Article 7 of Directive 1999/96/EC remain applicable and are repeated by reference in this Directive. For example, the Commission will continue to review the need to introduce new emission limits for presently non-regulated pollutants, report on the progress of negotiations for a world-wide harmonised test cycle, report on the development of on-board monitoring (OBM) systems and confirm the mandatory NOx emission limit applicable from 1 October 2008 for all new type-approvals.4.1.8. Transposition - Article 8The co-decision process should be completed during the first half of 2004. However, the transposition date has to be reflected in the date set for the repeal of Directives 88/77/EEC, 91/542/EEC and 1999/96/EC in Article 9 and also linked to the transposition date set for the comitology Directive mentioned in Articles 3 and 4.4.1.9. Repeal - Article 9Directives 88/77/EEC, 91/542/EEC and 1999/96/EC will be replaced by this Directive and these Directives should be repealed from the date of application of this Directive in the Member States. Accordingly, a table of correspondence is given in Annex XI of this proposal.Type-approvals granted according to Directive 1999/96/EC (as last amended by Directive 2001/27/EC) will remain valid until the implementation of the measures contained within this proposal.4.1.10. Consolidated technical AnnexesThe consolidated annexes of Directives 88/77/EEC, 91/542/EEC, 96/1/EC, 1999/96/EC and 2001/27/EC are included in this proposal except where references to other Directives are updated.4.1.11. Annex IXAs required in Point 7(c)(ii) of the Inter-Institutional Agreement mentioned in section 1, Annex IX provides a table containing the time-limits for the transposition of the repealed Directives (and successive amending acts) into National laws.4.1.12. Annex XAs required in Point 7(b) of the Inter-Institutional Agreement mentioned in section 1, Annex X provides a table showing the correlation between the appropriate parts of the repealed Directives and this recast Directive.4.2. The Proposal for a Commission DirectiveAs mentioned in section 2 above, there will be two parts to this proposal. This section describes the 'general content and aims' of the second part, or the comitology proposal, which the Commission has already tabled, in part, and will propose more completely in draft form for further discussion in Commission working group(s). After completion, it will be submitted to the regulatory committee for adaptation to technical progress through the procedures that will be laid down in a proposal for a new framework Directive on the type-approval of motor vehicles. The new framework Directive is currently being prepared by the Commission services (as referenced in section 2.1).The comitology proposal will in effect be an amendment to this co-decision proposal and will contain the following general elements that will be covered according to Article 6 of this proposal.4.2.1. DurabilityThe actual durability periods applicable to various vehicle categories are defined in Article 3 of the co-decision proposal. The mechanism for a manufacturer to follow to demonstrate useful life compliance will be proposed as follows.- Engines will be grouped into engine families, taking account of the definition given in ISO 16185 for engine families.- For the purposes of durability demonstration, it may be appropriate for engines to be sub-divided into a family based on the type of exhaust aftertreatment system with which the engine is equipped. Such an approach could allow the determination of deterioration factors that are specific to a certain 'technical design' of an exhaust aftertreatment system that is common to a range of engines.- From such a family of engines, a parent engine will be selected for testing over a service accumulation schedule that will be defined by the manufacturer and agreed by the technical service.- It is not necessary for the proposal to provide a definition of the service accumulation schedule. The manufacturer will have the flexibility to choose an appropriate service accumulation schedule which may be based on data collected from vehicles in service that are equipped with the parent engine or an engine from that family, or based on a pre-defined engine dynamometer schedule.- During the service accumulation schedule the engine shall be tested for all regulated emissions over the European Steady [state] Cycle (ESC), European Transient Cycle (ETC) and, if seen to be necessary, the European Load Response (ELR) test cycles. These tests will be conducted periodically during the service accumulation schedule. For an engine equipped with an exhaust aftertreatment system, the service accumulation schedule is proposed to commence after sufficient engine running to ensure that the aftertreatment system has stabilised from new. This is proposed to be up to 125 hours, where requested by the manufacturer. There is no specific end point to the service accumulation schedule. It will be up to the manufacturer to decide how long he needs to run and test the engine to be confident that the emissions performance is not going to drastically change over time so as to be sure that the emission limits will be complied with at the durability period applicable for the engine, and engine family, under test.- Over the service accumulation schedule, a regression analysis shall be made based on the emissions test results. The projected emissions shall be extrapolated to the start of the service accumulation schedule and to the durability applicable to the type of engine (see Article 3 of the co-decision proposal). On the basis of these two values, deterioration factors are then calculated for each pollutant on each test cycle (ESC for CO, HC, NOx and particulate, ETC for CO, THC, NMHC, CH4, NOx and particulate and ELR for smoke, if seen to be necessary) and recorded in the type-approval documentation.- It will be proposed that manufacturers who produce engines in small batches may use fixed deterioration factors instead of conducting a service accumulation schedule.
On the basis of these two values, deterioration factors are then calculated for each pollutant on each test cycle (ESC for CO, HC, NOx and particulate, ETC for CO, THC, NMHC, CH4, NOx and particulate and ELR for smoke, if seen to be necessary) and recorded in the type-approval documentation.- It will be proposed that manufacturers who produce engines in small batches may use fixed deterioration factors instead of conducting a service accumulation schedule. Further discussion will be necessary to determine these fixed deterioration factors and also to determine whether all engines, irrespective of production volume, can utilise fixed deterioration factors.- To rationalise the testing burden associated with the durability demonstration, it should also be discussed whether the deterioration factors determined according to US engine family certification could be accepted for EU type-approval. In addition, it may also be appropriate to include the US Federal Test Procedure (FTP) as a relevant test cycle for emissions measurement during the service accumulation schedule to provide for one single service accumulation cycle appropriate for EU, US and possibly Japanese durability demonstration. However, consideration of these issues will depend on consultations with the authorities in the US and Japan and, in the absence of a common technical standard (or global technical regulation), whether reciprocal recognition of the EU procedures for durability demonstration for engine certification in the US and Japan will be accepted.- The issue of maintenance is an important criteria that needs to be defined in order that maintenance that is required to be performed during the service accumulation schedule is also the same in real life operation and as advised to the owner of the vehicle. The Commission believes there is a need for some minimum criteria to be laid down in the Directive for major emission-related components in terms of repair, replacement or cleaning intervals.4.2.2. Conformity of in-service vehicles/enginesThe actual durability of a type of vehicle equipped with a heavy-duty engine is defined in Article 3 of the co-decision proposal. The comitology proposal will define the procedures for checking the conformity of in-service vehicles/engines up to those durability periods.The procedure is based around the requirement for the manufacturer to conduct an audit of the emissions performance of his products in service. A major part of the information to be provided by the audit is emissions test data as measured on the test cycles required for demonstration of useful life compliance, or through the use of mobile emissions measuring equipment fitted to vehicles (see section 4.2.2.1). Records of malfunctions detected by the vehicle's OBD system could also be utilised. The number of vehicles or engines to be tested should depend on the sales volume of the manufacturer. The Commission will not propose specific procedures - the manufacturer should take what steps are necessary to collect relevant emissions data as part of his normal practice to comply with common auditing standards and procedures.For example, such audit data may be collected through an agreement with fleet operators to test vehicles or engines at periodic intervals. This may require the manufacturer to provide substitute vehicles during the testing. The manufacturer may also choose to run a fleet of representative vehicles within those used by the company under in normal working conditions but also used to collect audit data.If the technical service does not approve the audit information provided by the manufacturer, he should take action to obtain further information to clarify the situation. Such action may result in the manufacturer having to perform more confirmatory testing or the authority may decide to conduct tests.It is debatable whether engine testing should ever be enforced, due to the very high expense of taking heavy-duty vehicles from service, removing the engine and performing laboratory emission tests on the engine alone. While such engine testing on a dynamometer is expensive, it is a recognised method for determining compliance with the type-approval. However, one can argue that since such tests are conducted without gearbox or engine-auxiliary items which do have an effect on emissions, engine dynamometer tests are not fully representative for checking in-service compliance of an engine installed in a vehicle in real-world operations.The technical details of these test stages will be developed during the discussions relating to the preparation of the comitology proposal.However, at the end of the procedure, if non-compliance has been established, actions that may be taken are laid down in the type-approval framework Directive. A plan of remedial measures to correct non-conformity should be drawn-up and carried out in consultation with the technical service and/or type-approval authority.4.2.2.1. International actionsAs mentioned in the section above, the use of mobile emission measuring equipment is foreseen to be the most cost-effective method for establishing the emissions compliance of heavy-duty vehicles. The appropriate methods are being developed in various research programmes with respect to on-board emission data collection systems in conjunction with a fully developed procedure for checking emissions in what are termed 'off-cycle' driving events. The US authorities have implemented their not-too-exceed (NTE) requirements for heavy-duty vehicles and a global approach to off-cycle emissions is being considered as a future candidate global technical regulation under the auspices of the UN-ECE World Forum for the Harmonisation of Vehicle Regulations (WP29).For example, there are the West Virginia University Mobile Emissions Measuring System (MEMS) and two systems developed by different parts of the US Environmental Protection Agency - the ROVER system and the Portable Emissions Measurement System (PEMS). These systems can offer real-world emission measuring capability that should be the primary aim to provide a comprehensive in-use conformity-checking tool. Such technology could be used as part of the manufacturer's audit exercise or for further follow-up testing by the type-approval authorities or technical services.It is intended that the comitology proposal with respect to conformity of in-service vehicles/engines will aim to adopt a solution based on the use of on-board measuring equipment and, where possible, take into account the global initiative mentioned above. If this is not possible within the time-frame for adoption of this split-level approach, further adaptations to the technical annexes will need to be foreseen to include, for example, the specifications for on-board measuring equipment and test protocols, as these are developed.Conformity of in-service vehicles and engines is a measure that will only apply to vehicles and engines after October 2005 and when sufficient distance has been accumulated on vehicles to make it worthwhile to test emissions compliance.
If this is not possible within the time-frame for adoption of this split-level approach, further adaptations to the technical annexes will need to be foreseen to include, for example, the specifications for on-board measuring equipment and test protocols, as these are developed.Conformity of in-service vehicles and engines is a measure that will only apply to vehicles and engines after October 2005 and when sufficient distance has been accumulated on vehicles to make it worthwhile to test emissions compliance. Delay in the completion of the relevant technical annexes is not seen to be a major concern when a more elegant, effective and global technical solution can be attained.4.2.3. On-board diagnostics (OBD)New requirements will provide the technical means for specifying the OBD system and for type-approving the OBD system.OBD, as applied to light-duty vehicles, has been used as a model but there are some significant differences between the light-duty vehicle OBD requirements of Directive 70/220/EEC and heavy-duty vehicle OBD described here.In the first stage, applicable from 1 October 2005 for new type-approvals of compression-ignition engines against the 2005 emission limits or the permissive EEV emission limits, the OBD system should monitor the functioning of the engine against fixed threshold limits (as for light-duty vehicle OBD in Directive 70/220/EEC) and, in addition, any emission aftertreatment system downstream of the engine for what is described as major functional failure. At this stage, monitoring of the emission aftertreatment system for major functional failure is based on the premise that sensor technology to monitor performance related to emissions will not be fully developed for widespread application on heavy-duty vehicles in 2005.In the second stage, applicable from October 2008 for new type-approvals of compression-ignition and gas engines to the 2008 emission limits or the permissive EEV emission limits, the OBD system should monitor the functioning of the engine and the exhaust aftertreatment system downstream of the engine against fixed threshold limits. However, this will be subject to review of the development of sensor technology. At this stage the engine-aftertreatment OBD system will be expanded to cover the vehicle, to take account of the inputs received from other vehicle systems that may have an influence on the functioning of the total emission control system.The new requirements will include, but not be limited to:- OBD definitions;- OBD test requirements;- definition of mandatory system monitoring (deNOx, diesel particulate filter, combined deNOx-diesel particulate filter, catalysts, fuel injection system etc);- criteria for activation and deactivation of the malfunction indicator (MI), and storage and deletion of fault codes;- fault code storage and enforcement through storage of hours run by the engine with a fault code stored;- criteria for allowed deficiencies in OBD systems for type-approval;- criteria for temporary disablement of the OBD system under certain justified engine operating conditions;- requirements to ensure unrestricted and standadised access tro the OBD system for inspection, diagnosis, servicing and repairs, commensurate with the measures introduced by Directive 70/220/EEC;- appropriate requirements relating to replacement parts to ensure their compatibility with heavy-duty vehicles equipped with OBD systems.The new requirements will include the OBD demonstration test. In real use, the OBD system will perform some monitors quicker than others and some monitoring will be carried out over relatively long periods of time over cumulative periods of similar (steady-state) driving conditions. With respect to the test cycle to be used for the OBD demonstration test, it has been shown that while the ETC used for tailpipe emission testing is representative of real use, it does not include sufficient elements of steady-state operation to be confident that complete OBD monitoring will be carried out over that 30 minute test procedure. The ESC used for emission testing has sufficient steady-state operation but is regarded as having too much steady-state operation to be completely representative of the real use conditions in which OBD must operate. Therefore, a 'short-ESC test' purely for the OBD demonstration test has been developed. This test follows the same mode order as the full ESC but has a mode length of 60 seconds compared with 120 seconds for the ESC test cycle.Council Directive 70/220/EEC [14], as amended by Commission Directive 1999/102/EC [15], introduced OBD for light-duty vehicles and included necessary references to international standards, for example, ISO 15765 and ISO 15031 for OBD communications on-board the vehicle and between the vehicle and off-board diagnostic tools, diagnostic tools, diagnostic fault codes and the connector between the vehicle and diagnostic tools. Such prescriptions were necessary to provide a standard platform for the diagnostic and repair industries (e.g. independent repairers and roadside organisations).[14] OJ L 76, 6.4.1970, p. 1.[15] OJ L 334, 28.12.1999, p. 43.Similar international OBD standards will be referenced in the new requirements while taking account of the differences between light-duty vehicle and heavy-duty vehicle applications (e.g. different system voltages between light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles, connector design to prevent a light-duty vehicle diagnostic tool from being connected to a heavy-duty vehicle having a higher system voltage). However, there are some complications.ISO 15765 [16] and ISO 15031-5 [17] are used by many EU and Asian medium and heavy-duty vehicle manufacturers and are derived from the standards developed previously for light-duty vehicles and passenger cars.[16] International Standards Organisation (ISO) 15765-4, "Road Vehicles - Diagnostics on Controller Area Network (CAN) - Part 4: Requirements for emissions related systems", December 2001.[17] International Standards Organisation (ISO) 15031-5, "Road Vehicles - Communication between vehicles and external equipment for emissions-related diagnostics - Part 5: Emissions-related diagnostics services", December 2001.SAE J1939 [18] was developed and is maintained by the heavy-duty vehicle industry through the SAE Truck and Bus Council. SAE J1939 has been employed by US manufacturers since the mid-1990's. Many European and Asian manufacturers also use SAE J1939. SAE J1939 covers a wealth of diagnostic criteria, for example, diagnostic services, diagnostic fault codes, diagnostic lamps, off-board diagnostic connector, data link and monitoring parameters.[18] Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) J1939, "Recommended Practice for a Serial Control and Communications Vehicle Network", April 2000.While ISO 15765 and ISO 15031 provide a similar level of diagnostic coverage, there are certain technical differences between the ISO and SAE standards. The diagnostic fault codes from an SAE J1939 vehicle system will be fully readable and the diagnostic system fully accessible, but in a different manner to that for an ISO 15765 and 15031 vehicle system.While a single OBD standard would be desirable, at this time it is not possible to dictate that either the ISO or SAE standard should take precedence, especially in the short timeframe before heavy-duty vehicle OBD becomes mandatory in the EU from October 2005. The cost of requiring the industry to move from ISO to SAE or vice versa could not be justified.Today, the heavy-duty vehicle repair market is already equipped to deal with SAE J1939 vehicles and it is recognised that the service and repair market for heavy-duty vehicles, at least for the heavier vehicles, is different to that for light-duty vehicles. However, the Commission wishes to ensure that in the future, wherever possible, access to maintain and repair heavy-duty vehicles with OBD systems standardised and is available to all interested parties.
However, the Commission wishes to ensure that in the future, wherever possible, access to maintain and repair heavy-duty vehicles with OBD systems standardised and is available to all interested parties. Further attention may have to be made to distinguish between the range of light heavy-duty vehicles and heavy heavy-duty vehicles that fall within the scope of this Directive.Consequently, ISO TC22/SC3/WG1 is already looking at the advantages and disadvantages of requiring the use of using either the ISO or SAE standard or allowing both standards to co-exist. It would seem at this time that the use of both ISO 15765/15031 and SAE J1939 seems possible.Therefore, in formulating its comitology proposal, the Commission will consider carefully the benefits of the ISO and SAE standards and the recommendations made by the ISO committee with the aim of providing the most cost-effective level of diagnostic capability and standardised access to efficiently diagnose and repair heavy-duty vehicles in the market.4.2.4. Other elements of the comitology proposalThe comitology proposal will also amend the test reference fuels contained in Annex IV to provide for 2005 test fuels that are representative of the fuel specifications likely to be available on the market from that date (i.e. with respect to sulphur content). This amendment will therefore take on board, as appropriate, the provisions laid out in Commission Directive 2002/80/EC (amending Directive 70/220/EEC) regarding Annexes IX and IXa.The proposal will also amend the laboratory procedures for the sampling and measurement of particulates, as requested in indent 3 of Article 7 to Directive 1999/96/EC. This is a consequence of the low particulate emission limits applicable from 1 October 2005 that push the boundaries of the reliability and repeatability of the present particulate gravimetric procedures. Such amendments will take into account the recent ISO 16183 standard and other important work in this area.2003/0205 (COD)Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from compression-ignition engines for use in vehicles, and the emission of gaseous pollutants from positive-ignition engines fuelled with natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas for use in vehicles (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION ,Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 95 thereof,Having regard to the proposal from the Commission [19],[19] OJ No C 193, 31. 7. 1986, p. 3.Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee [20],[20] OJ No C 333, 29. 12. 1986, p. 17. Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions [21], [21] OJ C Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty [22], [22] OJ C Whereas: new(1) Council Directive 88/77/EEC of 3 December 1987 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from compression ignition engines for use in vehicles, and the emission of gaseous pollutants from positive ignition engines fuelled with natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas for use in vehicles [23] is one of the separate Directives under the type-approval procedure laid down by Council Directive 70/156/EEC of 6 February 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the type-approval of motor vehicles and their trailers [24]. Directive 88/77/EEC has been substantially amended several times to introduce successively more stringent pollutant emission limits. Since further amendments are to be made, it should be recast in the interests of clarity.[23] OJ L 36, 9.2.1988, p. 33. Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2001/27/EC (OJ L107, 18.4.2001, p. 10).[24] OJ L 42, 23.2.1970, p. 1. Directive as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 807/2003 (OJ L 122, 16.5.2003, p. 36)(2) Council Directive 91/542/EEC of 1 October 1991 amending Directive 88/77/EEC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous pollutants from diesel engines for use in vehicles [25], Directive 1999/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 1999 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from compression ignition engines for use in vehicles, and the emission of gaseous pollutants from positive ignition engines fuelled with natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas for use in vehicles and amending Council Directive 88/77/EEC [26], and Commission Directive 2001/27/EC of 10 April 2001 adapting to technical progress Council Directive 88/77/EEC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from compression-ignition engines for use in vehicles, and the emission of gaseous pollutants from positive-ignition engines fuelled with natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas for use in vehicles [27] have introduced provisions which, while being autonomous, are closely linked to the scheme established under Directive 88/77/EEC. Those autonomous provisions should be fully integrated into the recast in the interests of clarity and legal certainty.[25] OJ L 295, 25.10.1991, p. 1.[26] OJ L 44, 16.2.2000, p. 1.[27] OJ L 107, 18.4.2001, p. 10.(3) It is necessary that all the Member States adopt the same requirements, in order, in particular, to permit the implementation, for each vehicle type, of the EC type-approval system which is the subject of Directive 70/156/EEC.(4) The Commission's programme on air quality, road transport emissions, fuels and emission abatement technologies [28], hereinafter "the first Auto-Oil programme", showed that further reductions in pollutant emissions from heavy-duty vehicles were necessary with a view to achieving future air quality standards.[28] COM(96) 248 final.(5) Reductions in emission limits applicable from the year 2000, corresponding to abatements of 30% in emissions of carbon monoxide, total hydrocarbons, oxides of nitrogen and particulate matter were identified by the first Auto-Oil programme as key measures for the achievement of medium-term air quality. A reduction of 30% in exhaust smoke opacity should additionally contribute to the reduction of particulate matter. Additional reductions in emission limits applicable from the year 2005, corresponding to additional abatements of 30% in carbon monoxide, total hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen and 80% in particulate matter should greatly contribute to air quality improvement in the medium to longer-term. The additional limit for oxides of nitrogen applicable in the year 2008 should result in a further 43% reduction in the emission limit for this pollutant.(6) Type-approval tests for gaseous and particulate pollutants and smoke opacity are applicable to allow for a more representative evaluation of the emissions performance of engines over test conditions that more closely resemble those encountered by vehicles in-service. From 2000, conventional compression-ignition engines and those compression-ignition engines fitted with certain types of emission control equipment are tested over a steady-state test cycle and over a new load response test for smoke opacity. Compression-ignition engines fitted with advanced emission control systems are, in addition, tested over a new transient test cycle. From 2005, all compression-ignition engines should be tested on all these test cycles.
From 2005, all compression-ignition engines should be tested on all these test cycles. Gas fuelled engines are only tested on the new transient test cycle.(7) In laying down new standards and test procedures, it is necessary to take account of the impact on air quality of future traffic growth in the Community. The work undertaken by the Commission in this sphere has shown that the motor industry in the Community has made great strides in the perfection of the technology allowing a considerable reduction in emissions of gaseous and particulate pollutants. However, it is still necessary to press for further improvements in emission limits and other technical requirements in the interests of environmental protection and public health. In particular, the results of on-going research into the characteristics of ultra-fine particulates should be taken into account in any future measures.(8) It is necessary that further improvements be made to the quality of motor fuels to enable the efficient and durable performance of emission control systems in service.(9) New provisions for on-board diagnostics (OBD) should be introduced from 2005 with a view to facilitating the immediate detection of the deterioration or failure of engine emission control equipment. This should enhance diagnostic and repair capability, significantly improving the sustainable emission performance of in-service heavy-duty vehicles. Since, on the world-wide stage, OBD for heavy-duty diesel engines is in its infancy, it should be introduced in the Community in two stages to allow for system development so that the OBD system does not give false indications. In order to assist the Member States in ensuring that the owners and operators of heavy-duty vehicles meet their obligation to repair faults indicated by the OBD system, the distance covered or the time that has elapsed after a fault has been indicated to the driver should be recorded.(10) Compression-ignition engines are inherently durable and have demonstrated that, with proper and effective maintenance, they can retain a high level of emissions performance over the significantly high distances travelled by heavy-duty vehicles in the course of commercial operations. However, future emission standards will push the introduction of emission control systems downstream of the engine, such as deNOx systems, diesel particulate filters and systems that are a combination of both and, perhaps, other systems yet to be defined. It is therefore necessary to establish a useful life requirement on which to base procedures for ensuring the compliance of an engine's emission control system throughout that reference period. In establishing such a requirement, due account should be taken of the considerable distances covered by heavy-duty vehicles, of the need to incorporate appropriate and timely maintenance and of the possibility of type-approving category N1 vehicles in accordance with either this Directive or Council Directive 70/220/EEC of 20 March 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States on measures to be taken against air pollution by emissions from motor vehicles [29].[29] OJ L 76, 6.4.1970, p. 1. Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2002/80/EC (OJ L 291, 28.10.2002, p. 20).(11) Member States should be allowed, by means of tax incentives, to expedite the placing on the market of vehicles that satisfy the requirements adopted at Community level, provided that such incentives comply with the provisions of the Treaty and satisfy certain conditions intended to prevent distortion of the internal market. This Directive does not affect the right of the Member States to include emissions of pollutants and other substances in the basis for calculating road traffic taxes on motor vehicles.(12) Since some of those tax incentives are State aids under Article 87(1) of the Treaty, they would have to be notified to the Commission under Article 88(3) of the Treaty for evaluation in accordance with the relevant criteria of compatibility. The notification of such measures in accordance with this Directive should be without prejudice to the obligation to notify under Article 88(3) of the Treaty.(13) With the aim of simplifying and accelerating the procedure, the Commission should be entrusted with the task of adopting measures implementing the fundamental provisions laid down in this Directive as well as the measures for adapting the annexes of this Directive to scientific and technical progress.(14) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Directive and its adaptation to scientific and technical progress should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission [30].[30] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23.(15) The Commission should keep under review the need to introduce emission limits for pollutants which are as yet unregulated and which arise as a consequence of the wider use of new alternative fuels and new exhaust emission control systems.(16) The Commission should consider the available technology with a view to confirming the mandatory NOx standard for 2008 in a report to the European Parliament and the Council, accompanied, if necessary, by appropriate proposals.(17) Since the objectives of the proposed action, namely the realisation of the internal market through the introduction of common technical requirements concerning gaseous and particulate emissions for all types of vehicles, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale of the action, be better achieved on a Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Directive does not go beyond what is necessary for that purpose.(18) The obligation to transpose this Directive into national law should be confined to those provisions which represent a substantive change as compared with the earlier Directives. The obligation to transpose the provisions which are unchanged arises under the earlier Directives.(19) This Directive should be without prejudice to the obligations of the Member States relating to the time-limits for transposition into national law and application of the Directives set out in Annex IX, Part B, 88/77/EEC (adapted)HA VE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: 1999/96/EC Art. 1(2) (adapted)Article 1 Definitions For the purposes of this Directive the following definitions shall apply : (a) 'vehicle' means any vehicle as defined in Article 2 of Directive 70/156/EEC and propelled by a compression-ignition or gas engine, with the exception of vehicles of category M1 with a technically permissible maximum laden mass less than or equal to 3.5 tonnes ; (b) 'compression-ignition or gas engine' means the motive propulsion source of a vehicle for which type-approval as a separate technical unit, as defined in Article 2 of Directive 70/156/EEC, may be granted; (c) "enhanced environment-friendly vehicle (EEV)" means a vehicle propelled by an engine which complies with the permissive emission limit values set out in row C of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I. 88/77/EEC (adapted)Article 2 Obligations of the Member States 88/77/EEC (adapted) 91/542/EEC Art. 2(2) and (3) (adapted) 1999/96/EC Art. 2(2) (adapted) new 1.
(c) "enhanced environment-friendly vehicle (EEV)" means a vehicle propelled by an engine which complies with the permissive emission limit values set out in row C of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I. 88/77/EEC (adapted)Article 2 Obligations of the Member States 88/77/EEC (adapted) 91/542/EEC Art. 2(2) and (3) (adapted) 1999/96/EC Art. 2(2) (adapted) new 1. For types of compression-ignition or gas engines and types of vehicle propelled by compression-ignition or gas engine s, where the requirements set out in Annexes I to VIII are not met and in particular where the emissions of gaseous and particulate pollutants and opacity of smoke from the engine do not comply with the limit values set out in row A of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I, , 2001/27/EC Art. 2(2) (adapted) new Member States:(a) shall refuse to grant EC type-approval pursuant to Article 4(1) of Directive 70/156/EEC; and(b) shall refuse national type-approval.. 88/77/EEC (adapted) 91/542/EEC Art. 2(4) (adapted) 1999/96/EC Art. 2(3) (adapted) 2. Except in the case of vehicles and engines intended for export to third countries or replacement engines for in-service vehicles, Member States shall , where the requirements set out in Annexes I to VIII are not met and in particular where the emissions of gaseous and particulate pollutants and opacity of smoke from the engine do not comply with the limit values set out in row A of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I, 2001/27/EC Art. 2(3) (adapted):(a) consider certificates of conformity which accompany new vehicles or new engines pursuant to Directive 70/156/EEC as no longer valid for the purposes of Article 7(1) of that Directive, and(b) prohibit the registration, sale, entry into service or use of new vehicles propelled by a compression-ignition or gas engine and the sale or use of new compression-ignition or gas engines.. 2001/27/EC Art. 2(4) (adapted). 3. Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 and 2, with effect from 1 October 2003 and except in the case of vehicles and engines intended for export to third countries or replacement engines for in-service vehicles, Member States shall , for types of gas engines and types of vehicles propelled by a gas engine which do not comply with the requirements set out in Annexes I to VIII :(a) consider certificates of conformity which accompany new vehicles or new engines pursuant to Directive 70/156/EEC as no longer valid for the purposes of Article 7(1) of that Directive; and(b) prohibit the registration, sale, entry into service or use of new vehicles and the sale or use of new engines.. 88/77/EEC (adapted) 91/542/EEC Art. 2(1) (adapted) 1999/96/EC Art. 2(1) (adapted) new 4. If the requirements set out in Annexes I to VIII and in Articles 3 and 4 are satisfied, in particular where the emissions of gaseous and particulate pollutants and opacity of smoke from the engine comply with the limit values set out in row B1 or row B2 or with the permissive limit values set out in row C of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I,, 2001/27/EC Art. 2(1) (adapted) new no Member State may , on grounds relating to the gaseous and particulate pollutants and opacity of smoke emissions from an engine :(a) refuse to grant EC type-approval pursuant to Article 4(1) of Directive 70/156/EEC or to grant national type-approval for a type of vehicle propelled by a compression-ignition or gas engine; (b) prohibit the registration, sale, entry into service or use of new vehicles propelled by a compression-ignition or gas engine ; (c) refuse to grant EC type-approval for a type of compression-ignition or gas engine; (d) prohibit the sale or use of new compression-ignition or gas engines. 2001/27/EC Art. 2(5) (adapted) 1999/96/EC Art. 2(4) (adapted) new 5. With effect from 1 October 2005, for types of compression-ignition or gas engines and types of vehicle propelled by compression-ignition or gas engines which do not meet the requirements set out in Annexes I to VIII and in Articles 3 and 4 and in particular where the emissions of gaseous and particulate pollutants and opacity of smoke from the engine do not comply with the limit values set out in row B1 of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I , Member States: (a) shall refuse to grant EC type-approval pursuant to Article 4(1) of Directive 70/156/EEC; and (b) shall refuse national type-approval. 1999/96/EC Art. 2(5) (adapted) new 6. With effect from 1 October 2006 and except in the case of vehicles and engines intended for export to third countries or replacement engines for in-service vehicles, Member States shall , where the requirements set out in Annexes I to VIII and in Articles 3 and 4 are not met and in particular where the emissions of gaseous and particulate pollutants and opacity of smoke from the engine do not comply with the limit values set out in row B1 of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I : (a) consider certificates of conformity which accompany new vehicles or new engines pursuant to Directive 70/156/EEC as no longer valid for the purposes of Article 7(1) of that Directive; and (b) prohibit the registration, sale, entry into service or use of new vehicles propelled by a compression-ignition or gas engine and the sale or use of new compression-ignition or gas engines. 1999/96/EC Art. 2(6) (adapted) new 7. With effect from 1 October 2008, for types of compression-ignition or gas engines and types of vehicle propelled by compression-ignition or gas engines which do not meet the requirements set out in Annexes I to VIII and in Articles 3 and 4 and in particular where the emissions of gaseous and particulate pollutants and opacity of smoke from the engine do not comply with the limit values set out in row B2 of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I , Member States: (a) shall refuse to grant EC type-approval pursuant to Article 4(1) of Directive 70/156/EEC; and (b) shall refuse national type-approval.. 1999/96/EC Art. 2(7) (adapted) new 8. With effect from 1 October 2009 and except in the case of vehicles and engines intended for export to third countries or replacement engines for in-service vehicles, Member States shall , where the requirements set out in Annexes I to VIII and in Articles 3 and 4 are not met and in particular where the emissions of gaseous and particulate pollutants and opacity of smoke from the engine do not comply with the limit values set out in row B2 of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I: (a) consider certificates of conformity which accompany new vehicles or new engines pursuant to Directive 70/156/EEC as no longer valid for the purposes of Article 7(1) of that Directive;
1999/96/EC Art. 2(6) (adapted) new 7. With effect from 1 October 2008, for types of compression-ignition or gas engines and types of vehicle propelled by compression-ignition or gas engines which do not meet the requirements set out in Annexes I to VIII and in Articles 3 and 4 and in particular where the emissions of gaseous and particulate pollutants and opacity of smoke from the engine do not comply with the limit values set out in row B2 of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I , Member States: (a) shall refuse to grant EC type-approval pursuant to Article 4(1) of Directive 70/156/EEC; and (b) shall refuse national type-approval.. 1999/96/EC Art. 2(7) (adapted) new 8. With effect from 1 October 2009 and except in the case of vehicles and engines intended for export to third countries or replacement engines for in-service vehicles, Member States shall , where the requirements set out in Annexes I to VIII and in Articles 3 and 4 are not met and in particular where the emissions of gaseous and particulate pollutants and opacity of smoke from the engine do not comply with the limit values set out in row B2 of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I: (a) consider certificates of conformity which accompany new vehicles or new engines pursuant to Directive 70/156/EEC as no longer valid for the purposes of Article 7(1) of that Directive; and (b) prohibit the registration, sale, entry into service or use of new vehicles propelled by a compression-ignition or gas engine and the sale or use of new compression-ignition or gas engines.. 1999/96/EC Art. 2(8) (adapted) newÖ 9. Õ In accordance with paragraphe 4 an engine that satisfies the requirements Ö set out in Õ ðAnnexes I to VIII ï, and, Öin particular, complies with Õ the limit values set out in row C of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I shall be considered as complying with the requirements set out in paragraphs Ö1, 2 and 3Õ; In accordance with paragraphe 4 an engine that satisfies the requirements Öset out in Õ ðAnnexes I to VIII and in Articles 3 and 4ï andÖ, in particular, complies with Õ the limit values set out in row C of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I shall be considered as complying with the requirements set out in paragraphs Ö1, 2 and 3 and 5 to 8Õ. 88/77/EEC (adapted)Article 3 Durability of emission control systems 1999/96/EC Art. 5 (adapted) new 1. From 1 October 2005 for new type -approvals and from 1 October 2006 for all type -approvals , the manufacturer shall demonstrate that a compression-ignition or gas engine type-approved by reference to the emission limits set out in row B1 or row B2 or row C of the Tables in section 6.2.1. of Annex I will comply with those emission limits for a useful life of: (a) 100 000 km or five years, whichever is the sooner, in the case of engines to be fitted to vehicles of category N1; (b) 200 000 km or six years, whichever is the sooner, in the case of engines to be fitted to vehicles of category N2 and M2; (c) 500 000 km or seven years, whichever is the sooner, in the case of engines to be fitted to vehicles of category N3 and M3. 1999/96/EC Art. 6 (adapted) 2. Th e measures for the implementation of paragraph 1 shall be adopted by [30 June 2004] at the latest . 88/77/EEC (adapted) Article 4 On-board diagnostic systems 1999/96/EC Art. 4 (adapted) new 1. From 1 October 2005 for new type -approvals of vehicles and from 1 October 2006 for all type -approvals , a compression-ignition engine type-approved by reference to the emission limit values set out in row B1 or row C of the Tables in section 6.2.1. of Annex I or a vehicle propelled by such an engine shall be fitted with an on-board diagnostic (OBD) system that signals the presence of a fault to the driver if the OBD threshold limits set out in row B1 or row C of the table in paragraph 3 are exceeded . newIn the case of exhaust after-treatment systems, the OBD system may monitor for major functional failure of any of the following:(a) a catalyst, where fitted as a separate unit, whether or not it is part of a deNOx system or a diesel particulate filter;(b) a deNOx system, where fitted;(c) a diesel particulate filter, where fitted;(d) a combined deNOx-diesel particulate filter system.2. From 1 October 2008 for new type-approvals and from 1 October 2009 for all type-approvals, a compression-ignition or a gas engine type-approved by reference to the emission limit values set out in row B2 or row C of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I, or a vehicle propelled by such an engine shall be fitted with an OBD system that signals the presence of a fault to the driver if the OBD threshold limits set out in row B2 or row C of the Table in paragraph 3 are exceeded.The OBD system shall also include an interface between the engine electronic control unit (EECU) and any other engine or vehicle electrical or electronic systems that provide an input to or receive an output from the EECU and which affect the correct functioning of the emission control system, such as the interface between the EECU and a transmission electronic control unit.3. The OBD threshold limits shall be as follows:>TABLE POSITION>4. The measures for the implementation of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall be adopted by [30 June 2004] at the latest. 88/77/EEC (adapted) Article 5 Tax incentives 91/542/EEC Art. 3 (adapted) 1999/96/EC Art. 3 (adapted) new1. Member States may make provision for tax incentives only in respect of vehicles which comply with this Directive. Such incentives shall comply with the provisions of the Treaty, as well as with either paragraph 2 or paragraph 3 of this Article . 2. The incentives shall apply to all new vehicles offered for sale on the market of a Member State which comply in advance with the limit values set out in row B1 or B2 of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I .They shall be terminated with effect from the mandatory application of the row B1 emission limit values , as laid down in Article 2(6), or from the mandatory application of the row B2 emission limit values , as laid down in Article 2(8) . 3. The incentives shall apply to all new vehicles offered for sale on the market of a Member State which comply with the permissive limit values set out in row C of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I. 4. In addition to the conditions referred to in paragraph 1 , for each type of vehicle, the incentives shall not exceed the additional cost of the technical solutions introduced to ensure compliance with the limit values set out in row B1 or row B2 or with the permissive limit values set out in row C of the Tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I, and of their installation on the vehicle. 5. The Member States shall inform the Commission in sufficient time of plans to institute or change the tax incentives referred to in this Article, so that it can submit its observations. 88/77/EEC Art.4 (adapted) newArticle 6 Implementation measures and amendments 1. The measures necessary for the implementation of Articles 3 and 4 of this Directive shall be adopted by the Commission, assisted by the Committee established by Article 13(1) of Directive 70/156/EEC, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 13 (3) of that Directive. 2. Amendments to this Directive which are necessary to adapt it to scientific and tecnical progress shall be adopted by the Commission, assisted by the committee established by Article 13(1) of Directive 70/156/EEC, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 13(3) of that Directive. 88/77/EEC Art. 6 (adapted)Article 7 Review and reports 91/542/EEC Art. 5 (adapted) 91/542/EEC Art. 6 (adapted) 1999/96/EC Art. 7 (adapted) new 1. The Commission shall review the need to introduce new emission limits applicable to heavy-duty vehicles and engines in respect of pollutants that are as yet unregulated.
The Commission shall review the need to introduce new emission limits applicable to heavy-duty vehicles and engines in respect of pollutants that are as yet unregulated. The review shall be based on the wider market introduction of new alternative fuels and on the introduction of new additive-enabled exhaust emission control systems to meet future standards laid down in this Directive. Where appropriate, the Commission shall submit a proposal to the European Parliament and the Council. 2. T he Commission shall report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the progress in negotiations for a world-wide harmonised duty cycle (WHDC) . 3. T he Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on requirements for the operation of an on-board measurement (OBM) system. On the basis of that report , the Commission shall, where appropriate, submit a proposal for measures to include the technical specifications and corresponding annexes in order to provide for the type-approval of OBM systems which ensure at least equivalent levels of monitoring to OBD systems and which are compatible therewith. 4. The Commission shall consider the available technology with a view to confirming the mandatory NOx standard for 2008 in a report to the European Parliament and to the Council, accompanied, if necessary, by appropriate proposals. Article 8Transposition1. Member States shall adopt and publish, by ... [12 months after the entry into force of this Directive] at the latest, the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with Articles 3 and 4. They shall forthwith communicate to the Commission the text of those provisions and a correlation table between those provisions and this Directive.They shall apply those provisions from ... [12 months after the entry into force of this Directive].When Member States adopt those provisions, they shall contain a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such a reference on the occasion of their official publication. They shall also include a statement that references in existing laws, regulations and administrative provisions to the Directives repealed by this Directive shall be construed as references to this Directive. Member States shall determine how such reference is to be made and how that statement is to be formulated.2. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.Article 9RepealThe Directives listed in Annex IX, Part A, are repealed with effect from [the day after the date set out in the second subparagraph of Article 8(1)], without prejudice to the obligations of the Member States relating to the time-limits for transposition into national law and application of the Directives set out in Annex IX, Part B.References to the repealed Directives shall be construed as references to this Directive and shall be read in accordance with the correlation table in Annex X.Article 10Entry into forceThis Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 88/77/EEC Art.7 (adapted)Article 11 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.Done at Brussels, [...]For the European Parliament For the CouncilThe President The President[...] [...] 1999/96/EC Art.1(3) and AnnexANNEX ISCOPE, DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS, APPLICATION FOR EC TYPE-APPROVAL, SPECIFICATIONS AND TESTS AND CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION1. SCOPE This Directive applies to the gaseous and particulate pollutants from all motor vehicles equipped with compression-ignition engines and to the gaseous pollutants from all motor vehicles equipped with positive ignition engines fuelled with natural gas or LPG, and to compression-ignition and positive ignition engines as specified in Article 1 with the exception of those vehicles of category N1, N2 and M2 for which type-approval has been granted under Council Directive 70/220/EEC [31], as last amended by Commission Directive 98/77/EC [32].[31] OJ L 76, 6.4.1970, p. 1.[32] OJ L 286, 23.10.1998, p. 1.2. DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS For the purposes of this Directive:2.1. 'test cycle' means a sequence of test points each with a defined speed and torque to be followed by the engine under steady state (ESC test) or transient operating conditions (ETC, ELR test);2.2. 'approval of an engine (engine family)' means the approval of an engine type (engine family) with regard to the level of the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants;2.3. 'diesel engine' means an engine which works on the compression-ignition principle; 'gas engine' means an engine which is fuelled with natural gas (NG) or liquid petroleum gas (LPG);2.4. 'engine type' means a category of engines which do not differ in such essential respects as engine characteristics as defined in Annex II to this Directive;2.5. 'engine family' means a manufacturers grouping of engines which, through their design as defined in Annex II, Appendix 2 to this Directive, have similar exhaust emission characteristics; all members of the family must comply with the applicable emission limit values;2.6. 'parent engine' means an engine selected from an engine family in such a way that its emissions characteristics will be representative for that engine family; 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 12.7. 'gaseous pollutants' means carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons (assuming a ratio of CH1,85 for diesel, CH2,525 for LPG and CH2,93 for NG (NMHC), and an assumed molecule CH3O0,5 for ethanol-fuelled diesel engines), methane (assuming a ratio of CH4 for NG) and oxides of nitrogen, the last named being expressed in nitrogen dioxide (NO2) equivalent; 'particulate pollutants' means any material collected on a specified filter medium after diluting the exhaust with clean filtered air so that the temperature does not exceed 325 K (52 °C); 1999/96/EC Art. 1(3) and Annex (adapted)2.8 'smoke' means particles suspended in the exhaust stream of a diesel engine which absorb, reflect, or refract light;2.9 'net power' means the power in EC kW obtained on the test bench at the end of the crankshaft, or its equivalent, measured in accordance with the EC method of measuring power as set out in Commission Directive 80/1269/EEC [33], as last amended by Directive 97/21/EC [34];[33] OJ L 375, 31.12.1980, p. 46.[34] OJ L 125, 16.5.1997, p. 31.2.10. 'declared maximum power (Pmax)' means the maximum power in EC kW (net power) as declared by the manufacturer in his application for type-approval;2.11. 'per cent load' means the fraction of the maximum available torque at an engine speed;2.12. 'ESC test' means a test cycle consisting of 13 steady state modes to be applied in accordance with section 6.2 of this Annex;2.13. 'ELR test' means a test cycle consisting of a sequence of load steps at constant engine speeds to be applied in accordance with section 6.2 of this Annex;2.14. 'ETC test' means a test cycle consisting of 1 800 second-by-second transient modes to be applied in accordance with section 6.2 of this Annex;2.15. 'engine operating speed range' means the engine speed range, most frequently used during engine field operation, which lies between the low and high speeds, as set out in Annex III to this Directive;2.16. 'low speed (nloo)' means the lowest engine speed where 50% of the declared maximum power occurs;2.17. 'high speed (nhi)' means the highest engine speed where 70% of the declared maximum power occurs;2.18. 'engine speeds A, B and C' means the test speeds within the engine operating speed range to be used for the ESC test and the ELR test, as set out in Annex III, Appendix 1 to this Directive;2.19. 'control area' means the area between the engine speeds A and C and between 25 to 100 per cent load;2.20.
'control area' means the area between the engine speeds A and C and between 25 to 100 per cent load;2.20. 'reference speed (nref)' means the 100 per cent speed value to be used for denormalising the relative speed values of the ETC test, as set out in Annex III, Appendix 2 to this Directive;2.21. 'opacimeter' means an instrument designed to measure the opacity of smoke particles by means of the light extinction principle;2.22. 'NG gas range' means one of the H or L range as defined in European Standard EN 437, dated November 1993;2.23. 'self adaptability' means any engine device allowing the air/fuel ratio to be kept constant;2.24. 'recalibration' means a fine tuning of an NG engine in order to provide the same performance (power, fuel consumption) in a different range of natural gas;2.25. 'Wobbe Index (lower Wl; or upper Wu)' means the ratio of the corresponding calorific value of a gas per unit volume and the square root of its relative density under the same reference conditions:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>2.26. 'ë-shift factor (Së)' means an expression that describes the required flexibility of the engine management system regarding a change of the excess-air ratio ë if the engine is fuelled with a gas composition different from pure methane (see Annex VII for the calculation of Së); 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 1 (adapted). 2.27 'defeat device' means a device which measures, senses or responds to operating variables (e.g. vehicle speed, engine speed, gear used, temperature, intake pressure or any other parameter) for the purpose of activating, modulating, delaying or deactivating the operation of any component or function of the emission control system such that the effectiveness of the emission control system is reduced under conditions encountered during normal vehicle use unless the use of such a device is substantially included in the applied emission certification test procedures. 1999/96/EC Art. 1 and Annex Such a device will not be regarded as a defeat device if:- the need for the device is justified temporarily to protect the engine against intermittent operating conditions that could lead to damage or failure and no other measures are applicable for the same purpose which do not reduce the effectiveness of the emission control system;- the device operates only when needed during engine starting and/or warming-up and no other measures are applicable for the same purpose which do not reduce the effectiveness of the emission control system.Figure 1Specific definitions of the test cycles>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 2 (adapted). 2.28. 'auxiliary control device' means a system, function or control strategy installed to an engine or on a vehicle, that is used to protect the engine and/or its ancillary equipment against operating conditions that could result in damage or failure, or is used to facilitate engine starting. An auxiliary control device may also be a strategy or measure that has been satisfactorily demonstrated not to be a defeat device;. 2.29 'irrational emission control strategy' means any strategy or measure that, when the vehicle is operated under normal conditions of use, reduces the effectiveness of the emission control system to a level below that expected on the applicable emission test procedures. 1999/96/EC Art. 1(3) and Annex (adapted)1 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 31 2.30 Symbols and abbreviations1 2.30.1 Symbols for test parameters>TABLE POSITION> 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 3 (adapted). 2.30.2 . Symbols for chemical components>TABLE POSITION> 1999/96/EC Art. 1(3) and Annex (adapted)1 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 31 2.30.3. Abbreviations>TABLE POSITION>3. APPLICATION FOR EC TYPE-APPROVAL3.1. Application for EC Type-Approval for a Type of Engine or Engine Family as a Separate Technical Unit3.1.1. The application for approval of an engine type or engine family with regard to the level of the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants for diesel engines and with regard to the level of the emission of gaseous pollutants for gas engines shall be submitted by the engine manufacturer or by a duly accredited representative.3.1.2. It shall be accompanied by the undermentioned documents in triplicate and the following particulars:3.1.2.1. A description of the engine type or engine family, if applicable, comprising the particulars referred to in Annex II to this Directive which conform to the requirements of Articles 3 and 4 of Directive 70/156/EEC.3.1.3. An engine conforming to the "engine type" or "parent engine" characteristics described in Annex II shall be submitted to the technical service responsible for conducting the approval tests defined in section 6.3.2. Application for EC Type-Approval for a Vehicle Type in Respect of its Engine3.2.1. The application for approval of a vehicle with regard to emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants by its diesel engine or engine family and with regard to the level of the emission of gaseous pollutants by its gas engine or engine family shall be submitted by the vehicle manufacturer or a duly accredited representative.3.2.2. It shall be accompanied by the undermentioned documents in triplicate and the following particulars:3.2.2.1. A description of the vehicle type, of the engine-related vehicle parts and of the engine type or engine family, if applicable, comprising the particulars referred to in Annex II, along with the documentation required in application of Article 3 of Directive 70/156/EEC,3.3. Application for EC Type-Approval for a Vehicle Type with an Approved Engine3.3.1. The application for approval of a vehicle with regard to emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants by its approved diesel engine or engine family and with regard to the level of the emission of gaseous pollutants by its approved gas engine or engine family shall be submitted by the vehicle manufacturer or a duly accredited representative.3.3.2. It shall be accompanied by the undermentioned documents in triplicate and the following particulars:3.3.2.1. a description of the vehicle type and of engine-related vehicle parts comprising the particulars referred to in Annex II, as applicable, and a copy of the EC Type-Approval Certificate (Annex VI) for the engine or engine family, if applicable, as a separate technical unit which is installed in the vehicle type, along with the documentation required in application of Article 3 of Directive 70/156/EEC. 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 44. EC TYPE-APPROVAL4.1. Granting of a universal fuel EC type-approval A universal fuel EC type-approval is granted subject to the following requirements.4.1.1. In the case of diesel fuel the parent engine meets the requirements of this Directive on the reference fuel specified in Annex IV.4.1.2. In the case of natural gas the parent engine should demonstrate its capability to adapt to any fuel composition that may occur across the market. In the case of natural gas there are generally two types of fuel, high calorific fuel (H-gas) and low calorific fuel (L-gas), but with a significant spread within both ranges; they differ significantly in their energy content expressed by the Wobbe Index and in their ë-shift factor (Së). The formulae for the calculation of the Wobbe index and Së are given in sections 2.25 and 2.26. Natural gases with a ë-shift factor between 0,89 and 1,08 (0,89 Së 1,08) are considered to belong to H-range, while natural gases with a ë-shift factor between 1,08 and 1,19 (1,08 Së 1,19) are considered to belong to L-range. The composition of the reference fuels reflects the extreme variations of Së. The parent engine shall meet the requirements of this Directive on the reference fuels GR (fuel 1) and G25 (fuel 2), as specified in Annex IV, without any readjustment to the fuelling between the two tests. However, one adaptation run over one ETC cycle without measurement is permitted after the change of the fuel.
However, one adaptation run over one ETC cycle without measurement is permitted after the change of the fuel. Before testing, the parent engine shall be run-in using the procedure given in paragraph 3 of Appendix 2 to Annex III.4.1.2.1. On the manufacturer's request the engine may be tested on a third fuel (fuel 3) if the ë-shift factor (Së) lies between 0,89 (i.e. the lower range of GR) and 1,19 (i.e. the upper range of G25), for example when fuel 3 is a market fuel. The results of this test may be used as a basis for the evaluation of the conformity of the production.4.1.3. In the case of an engine fuelled with natural gas which is self-adaptive for the range of H-gases on the one hand and the range of L-gases on the other hand, and which switches between the H-range and the L-range by means of a switch, the parent engine shall be tested on the relevant reference fuel as specified in Annex IV for each range, at each position of the switch. The fuels are GR (fuel 1) and G23 (fuel 3) for the H-range of gases and G25 (fuel 2) and G23 (fuel 3) for the L-range of gases. The parent engine shall meet the requirements of this Directive at both positions of the switch without any readjustment to the fuelling between the two tests at each position of the switch. However, one adaptation run over one ETC cycle without measurement is permitted after the change of the fuel. Before testing the parent engine shall be run-in using the procedure given in paragraph 3 of Appendix 2 to Annex III.4.1.3.1. At the manufacturer's request the engine may be tested on a third fuel instead of G23 (fuel 3) if the ë-shift factor (Së) lies between 0,89 (i.e. the lower range of GR) and 1,19 (i.e. the upper range of G25), for example when fuel 3 is a market fuel. The results of this test may be used as a basis for the evaluation of the conformity of the production.4.1.4. In the case of natural gas engines, the ratio of the emission results "r" shall be determined for each pollutant as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>or,>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>and,>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>4.1.5. In the case of LPG the parent engine should demonstrate its capability to adapt to any fuel composition that may occur across the market. In the case of LPG there are variations in C3/C4 composition. These variations are reflected in the reference fuels. The parent engine should meet the emission requirements on the reference fuels A and B as specified in Annex IV without any readjustment to the fuelling between the two tests. However, one adaptation run over one ETC cycle without measurement is permitted after the change of the fuel. Before testing, the parent engine shall be run-in using the procedure defined in paragraph 3 of Appendix 2 to Annex III.4.1.5.1. The ratio of emission results "r" shall be determined for each pollutant as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>4.2. Granting of a fuel range restricted EC type-approval Fuel range restricted EC type-approval is granted subject to the following requirements.4.2.1. Exhaust emissions approval of an engine running on natural gas and laid out for operation on either the range of H-gases or on the range of L-gases The parent engine shall be tested on the relevant reference fuel, as specified in Annex IV, for the relevant range. The fuels are GR (fuel 1) and G23 (fuel 3) for the H-range of gases and G25 (fuel 2) and G23 (fuel 3) for the L-range of gases. The parent engine shall meet the requirements of this Directive without any readjustment to the fuelling between the two tests. However, one adaptation run over one ETC cycle without measurement is permitted after the change of the fuel. Before testing the parent engine shall be run-in using the procedure defined in paragraph 3 of Appendix 2 to Annex III.4.2.1.1. At the manufacturer's request the engine may be tested on a third fuel instead of G23 (fuel 3) if the ë-shift factor (Së) lies between 0,89 (i.e. the lower range of GR) and 1,19 (i.e. the upper range of G25), for example when fuel 3 is a market fuel. The results of this test may be used as a basis for the evaluation of the conformity of the production.4.2.1.2. The ratio of emission results "r" shall be determined for each pollutant as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>or,>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>and,>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>4.2.1.3. On delivery to the customer the engine shall bear a label (see paragraph 5.1.5) stating for which range of gases the engine is approved.4.2.2. Exhaust emissions approval of an engine running on natural gas or LPG and laid out for operation on one specific fuel composition4.2.2.1. The parent engine shall meet the emission requirements on the reference fuels GR and G25 in the case of natural gas, or the reference fuels A and B in the case of LPG, as specified in Annex IV. Between the tests fine-tuning of the fuelling system is allowed. This fine-tuning will consist of a recalibration of the fuelling database, without any alteration to either the basic control strategy or the basic structure of the database. If necessary the exchange of parts that are directly related to the amount of fuel flow (such as injector nozzles) is allowed.4.2.2.2. At the manufacturer's request the engine may be tested on the reference fuels GR and G23, or on the reference fuels G25 and G23, in which case the type-approval is only valid for the H-range or the L-range of gases respectively.4.2.2.3. On delivery to the customer the engine shall bear a label (see paragraph 5.1.5) stating for which fuel composition the engine has been calibrated.4.3. Exhaust emissions approval of a member of a family4.3.1. With the exception of the case mentioned in paragraph 4.3.2, the approval of a parent engine shall be extended to all family members without further testing, for any fuel composition within the range for which the parent engine has been approved (in the case of engines described in paragraph 4.2.2) or the same range of fuels (in the case of engines described in either paragraphs 4.1 or 4.2) for which the parent engine has been approved.4.3.2. Secondary test engine In case of an application for type-approval of an engine, or a vehicle in respect of its engine, that engine belonging to an engine family, if the technical service determines that, with regard to the selected parent engine the submitted application does not fully represent the engine family defined in Annex I, Apppendix 1, an alternative and if necessary an additional reference test engine may be selected by the technical service and tested.4.4. Type-approval certificate A certificate conforming to the model specified in Annex VI shall be issued for approval referred to under sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3. 1999/96/EC Art. 1(3) and Annex 5. ENGINE MARKINGS5.1. The engine approved as a technical unit must bear:5.1.1. the trademark or trade name of the manufacturer of the engine;5.1.2.
the trademark or trade name of the manufacturer of the engine;5.1.2. the manufacturer's commercial description;5.1.3. the EC type-approval number preceded by the distinctive letter(s) or number(s) of the country granting EC type-approval [35];[35] 1 = Germany, 2 = France, 3 = Italy, 4 = Netherlands, 5 = Sweden, 6 = Belgium, 9 = Spain, 11 = United Kingdom, 12 = Austria, 13 = Luxembourg, 16 = Norway, 17 = Finland, 18 = Denmark, 21 = Portugal, 23 = Greece, FL = Liechtenstein, IS = Iceland, IRL = Ireland.5.1.4. in case of an NG engine one of the following markings to be placed after the EC type approval number:- H in case of the engine being approved and calibrated for the H-range of gases;- L in case of the engine being approved and calibrated for the L-range of gases;- HL in case of the engine being approved and calibrated for both the H-range and L-range of gases;- Ht in case of the engine being approved and calibrated for a specific gas composition in the H-range of gases and transformable to another specific gas in the H-range of gases by fine tuning of the engine fuelling;- Lt in case of the engine being approved and calibrated for a specific gas composition in the L-range of gases and transformable to another specific gas in the L-range of gases after fine tuning of the engine fuelling;- HLt in the case of the engine being approved and calibrated for a specific gas composition in either the H-range or the L-range of gases and transformable to another specific gas in either the H-range or the L-range of gases by fine tuning of the engine fuelling.5.1.5. Labels In the case of NG and LPG fuelled engines with a fuel range restricted type approval, the following labels are applicable:5.1.5.1. Content The following information must be given: In the case of paragraph 4.2.1.3, the label shall state "ONLY FOR USE WITH NATURAL GAS RANGE H". If applicable, "H" is replaced by "L". In the case of paragraph 4.2.2.3, the label shall state "ONLY FOR USE WITH NATURAL GAS SPECIFICATION ..." or "ONLY FOR USE WITH LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS SPECIFICATION ...", as applicable. All the information in the appropriate table(s) in Annex IV shall be given with the individual constituents and limits specified by the engine manufacturer. The letters and figures must be at least 4 mm in height. Note: If lack of space prevents such labelling, a simplified code may be used. In this event, explanatory notes containing all the above information must be easily accessible to any person filling the fuel tank or performing maintenance or repair on the engine and its accessories, as well as to the authorities concerned. The site and content of these explanatory notes will be determined by agreement between the manufacturer and the approval authority.5.1.5.2. Properties Labels must be durable for the useful life of the engine. Labels must be clearly legible and their letters and figures must be indelible. Additionally, labels must be attached in such a manner that their fixing is durable for the useful life of the engine, and the labels cannot be removed without destroying or defacing them.5.1.5.3. Placing Labels must be secured to an engine part necessary for normal engine operation and not normally requiring replacement during engine life. Additionally, these labels must be located so as to be readily visible to the average person after the engine has been completed with all the auxiliaries necessary for engine operation.5.2. In case of an application for EC type-approval for a vehicle type in respect of its engine, the marking specified in section 5.1.5 shall also be placed close to fuel filling aperture.5.3. In case of an application for EC type-approval for a vehicle type with an approved engine, the marking specified in section 5.1.5 shall also be placed close to the fuel filling aperture.6. SPECIFICATIONS AND TESTS 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 5 Corrigendum, OJ L 266, 6.10.2001, p. 156.1. General6.1.1. Emission control equipment6.1.1.1. The components liable to affect the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines and the emission of gaseous pollutants from gas engines shall be so designed, constructed, assembled and installed as to enable the engine, in normal use, to comply with the provisions of this Directive.6.1.2. Functions of emission control equipment6.1.2.1. The use of a defeat device and/or an irrational emission control strategy is forbidden.6.1.2.2. An auxiliary control device may be installed to an engine, or on a vehicle, provided that the device:- operates only outside the conditions specified in paragraph 6.1.2.4, or- is activated only temporarily under the conditions specified in paragraph 6.1.2.4 for such purposes as engine damage protection, air-handling device protection [36], smoke management [37], cold start or warming-up, or[36] To be subject to further evaluation by the Commission before 31 December 2001.[37] To be subject to further evaluation by the Commission before 31 December 2001.- is activated only by on-board signals for purposes such as operational safety and limp-home strategies.6.1.2.3. An engine control device, function, system or measure that operates during the conditions specified in section 6.1.2.4 and which results in the use of a different or modified engine control strategy to that normally employed during the applicable emission test cycles will be permitted if, in complying with the requirements of sections 6.1.3 and/or 6.1.4, it is fully demonstrated that the measure does not reduce the effectiveness of the emission control system. In all other cases, such devices shall be considered to be a defeat device.6.1.2.4. For the purposes of point 6.1.2.2, the defined conditions of use under steady state and transient conditions [38] are:[38] To be subject to further evaluation by the Commission before 31 December 2001.- an altitude not exceeding 1 000 metres (or equivalent atmospheric pressure of 90 kPa),- an ambient temperature within the range 283 to 303 K (10 to 30 °C),- engine coolant temperature within the range 343 to 368 K (70 to 95 °C).6.1.3. Special requirements for electronic emission control systems6.1.3.1. Documentation requirements The manufacturer shall provide a documentation package that gives access to the basic design of the system and the means by which it controls its output variables, whether that control is direct or indirect. The documentation shall be made available in two parts:(a) the formal documentation package, which shall be supplied to the technical service at the time of submission of the type-approval application, shall include a full description of the system. This documentation may be brief, provided that it exhibits evidence that all outputs permitted by a matrix obtained from the range of control of the individual unit inputs have been indentified. This information shall be attached to the documentation required in Annex I, section 3;(b) additional material that shows the parameters that are modified by any auxiliary control device and the boundary conditions under which the device operates. The additional material shall include a description of the fuel system control logic, timing strategies and switch points during all modes of operation. The additional material shall also contain a justification for the use of any auxiliary control device and include additional material and test data to demonstrate the effect on exhaust emissions of any auxiliary control device installed to the engine or on the vehicle.
The additional material shall also contain a justification for the use of any auxiliary control device and include additional material and test data to demonstrate the effect on exhaust emissions of any auxiliary control device installed to the engine or on the vehicle. This additional material shall remain strictly confidential and be retained by the manufacturer, but be made open for inspection at the time of type-approval or at any time during the validity of the type-approval.6.1.4. To verify whether any strategy or measure should be considered a defeat device or an irrational emission control strategy according to the definitions given in sections 2.28 and 2.30, the type-approval authority and/or the technical service may additionally request a NOx screening test using the ETC which may be carried out in combination with either the type-approval test or the procedures for checking the conformity of production6.1.4.1. As an alternative to the requirements of Appendix 4 to Annex III to Directive 88/77/EEC, the emissions of NOx during the ETC screening test may be sampled using the raw exhaust gas and the technical prescriptions of ISO DIS 16183, dated 15 October 2000, shall be followed.6.1.4.2. In verifying whether any strategy or measure should be considered a defeat device or an irrational emission control strategy according to the definitions given in sections 2.28 and 2.30, an additional margin of 10%, related to the appropriate NOx limit value, shall be accepted.6.1.5. Transitional provisions for extension of type-approval6.1.5.1. This section shall only be applicable to new compression-ignition engines and new vehicles propelled by a compression-ignition engine that have been type-approved to the requirements of row A of the tables in section 6.2.1 of Annex I to Directive 88/77/EEC.6.1.5.2. As an alternative to sections 6.1.3 and 6.1.4, the manufacturer may present to the technical service the results of a NOx screening test using the ETC on the engine conforming to the characteristics of the parent engine described in Annex II, and taking into account the provisions of sections 6.1.4.1 and 6.1.4.2. The manufacturer shall also provide a written statement that the engine does not employ any defeat device or irrational emission control strategy as defined in section 2 of this Annex.6.1.5.3. The manufacturer shall also provide a written statement that the results of the NOx screening test and the declaration for the parent engine, as referred to in section 6.1.4, are also applicable to all engine types within the engine family described in Annex II. 1999/96/EC Art. 1(3) and Annex (adapted)6.2. Specifications Concerning the Emission of Gaseous and Particulate Pollutants and Smoke For type approval to row A of the tables in section 6.2.1, the emissions shall be determined on the ESC and ELR tests with conventional diesel engines including those fitted with electronic fuel injection equipment, exhaust gas recirculation (EGR), and/or oxidation catalysts. Diesel engines fitted with advanced exhaust aftertreatment systems including the NOx catalysts and/or particulate traps, shall additionally be tested on the ETC test. For type approval testing to either row B1 or B2 or row C of the tables in section 6.2.1 the emissions shall be determined on the ESC, ELR and ETC tests. For gas engines, the gaseous emissions shall be determined on the ETC test. The ESC and ELR test procedures are described in Annex III, Appendix 1, the ETC test procedure in Annex III, Appendices 2 and 3. The emissions of gaseous pollutants and particulate pollutants, if applicable, and smoke, if applicable, by the engine submitted for testing shall be measured by the methods described in Annex III, Appendix 4. Annex V describes the recommended analytical systems for the gaseous pollutants, the recommended particulate sampling systems, and the recommended smoke measurement system. Other systems or analysers may be approved by the Technical Service if it is found that they yield equivalent results on the respective test cycle. The determination of system equivalency shall be based upon a 7 sample pair (or larger) correlation study between the system under consideration and one of the reference systems of this Directive. For particulate emissions only the full flow dilution system is recognised as the reference system. «Results» refer to the specific cycle emissions value. The correlation testing shall be performed at the same laboratory, test cell, and on the same engine, and is preferred to be run concurrently. The equivalency criterion is defined as a ± 5 % agreement of the sample pair averages. For introduction of a new system into the Directive the determination of equivalency shall be based upon the calculation of repeatability and reproducibility, as described in ISO 5725.6.2.1. Limit Values The specific mass of the carbon monoxide, of the total hydrocarbons, of the oxides of nitrogen and of the particulates, as determined on the ESC test, and of the smoke opacity, as determined on the ELR test, shall not exceed the amounts shown in Table 1.Table 1Limit values - ESC and ELR tests>TABLE POSITION> For diesel engines that are additionally tested on the ETC test, and specifically for gas engines, the specific masses of the carbon monoxide, of the non-methane hydrocarbons, of the methane (where applicable), of the oxides of nitrogen and of the particulates (where applicable) shall not exceed the amounts shown in Table 2.Table 2Limit values - ETC tests>TABLE POSITION>6.2.2. Hydrocarbon measurement for diesel and gas fuelled engines6.2.2.1. A manufacturer may choose to measure the mass of total hydrocarbons (THC) on the ETC test instead of measuring the mass of non-methane hydrocarbons. In this case, the limit for the mass of total hydrocarbons is the same as shown in table 2 for the mass of non-methane hydrocarbons.6.2.3. Specific requirements for diesel engines6.2.3.1. The specific mass of the oxides of nitrogen measured at the random check points within the control area of the ESC test must not exceed by more than 10 per cent the values interpolated from the adjacent test modes (reference Annex III, Appendix 1 sections 4.6.2 and 4.6.3).6.2.3.2. The smoke value on the random test speed of the ELR must not exceed the highest smoke value of the two adjacent test speeds by more than 20 per cent, or by more than 5 per cent of the limit value, whichever is greater.7. INSTALLATION ON THE VEHICLE7.1. The engine installation on the vehicle shall comply with the following characteristics in respect to the type-approval of the engine:7.1.1. intake depression shall not exceed that specified for the type-approved engine in Annex VI;7.1.2. exhaust back pressure shall not exceed that specified for the type-approved engine in Annex VI;7.1.3. power absorbed by the auxiliaries needed for operating the engine shall not exceed that specified for the type-approved engine in Annex VI;8. ENGINE FAMILY8.1. Parameters defining the engine family The engine family, as determined by the engine manufacturer, may be defined by basic characteristics which must be common to engines within the family. In some cases there may be interaction of parameters. These effects must also be taken into consideration to ensure that only engines with similar exhaust emission characteristics are included within an engine family.
These effects must also be taken into consideration to ensure that only engines with similar exhaust emission characteristics are included within an engine family. In order that engines may be considered to belong to the same engine family, the following list of basic parameters must be common:8.1.1. Combustion cycle:- 2 cycle- 4 cycle8.1.2. Cooling medium:- air- water- oil8.1.3. For gas engines and engines with aftertreatment- Number of cylinders (other diesel engines with fewer cylinders than the parent engine may be considered to belong to the same engine family provided the fuelling system meters fuel for each individual cylinder).8.1.4. Individual cylinder displacement:- engines to be within a total spread of 15 %8.1.5. Method of air aspiration:- naturally aspirated- pressure charged- pressure charged with charge air cooler8.1.6. Combustion chamber type/design:- pre-chamber- swirl chamber- open chamber8.1.7. Valve and porting - configuration, size and number:- cylinder head- cylinder wall- crankcase8.1.8. Fuel injection system (diesel engines):- pump-line-injector- in-line pump- distributor pump- single element- unit injector8.1.9. Fuelling system (gas engines):- mixing unit- gas induction/injection (single point, multi-point)- liquid injection (single point, multi-point).8.1.10. Ignition system (gas engines)8.1.11. Miscellaneous features:- exhaust gas recirculation- water injection/emulsion- secondary air injection- charge cooling system8.1.12. Exhaust aftertreatment:- 3-way-catalyst- oxidation catalyst- reduction catalyst- thermal reactor- particulate trap8.2. Choice of the Parent Engine8.2.1. Diesel Engines The parent engine of the family shall be selected using the primary criteria of the highest fuel delivery per stroke at the declared maximum torque speed. In the event that two or more engines share this primary criteria, the parent engine shall be selected using the secondary criteria of highest fuel delivery per stroke at rated speed. Under certain circumstances, the approval authority may conclude that the worst case emission rate of the family can best be characterised by testing a second engine. Thus, the approval authority may select an additional engine for test based upon features which indicate that it may have the highest emission level of the engines within that family. If engines within the family incorporate other variable features which could be considered to affect exhaust emissions, these features shall also be identified and taken into account in the selection of the parent engine.8.2.2. Gas Engines The parent engine of the family shall be selected using the primary criteria of the largest displacement. In the event that two or more engines share this primary criteria, the parent engine shall be selected using the secondary criteria in the following order:- the highest fuel delivery per stroke at the speed of declared rated power;- the most advanced spark timing;- the lowest EGR rate;- no air pump or lowest actual air flow pump. Under certain circumstances, the approval authority may conclude that the worst case emission rate of the family can best be characterised by testing a second engine. Thus, the approval authority may select an additional engine for test based upon features which indicate that it may have the highest emission level of the engines within that family.9. PRODUCTION CONFORMITY9.1. Measures to ensure production conformity must be taken in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 of Directive 70/156/EEC. Production conformity is checked on the basis of the description in the type-approval certificates set out in Annex VI to this Directive. Sections 2.4.2 and 2.4.3 of Annex X to Directive 70/156/EEC are applicable where the competent authorities are not satisfied with the auditing procedure of the manufacturer.9.1.1. If emissions of pollutants are to be measured and an engine type-approval has had one or several extensions, the tests will be carried out on the engine(s) described in the information package relating to the relevant extension.9.1.1.1. Conformity of the engine subjected to a pollutant test: After submission of the engine to the authorities, the manufacturer shall not carry out any adjustment to the engines selected.9.1.1.1.1.Three engines are randomly taken in the series. Engines that are subject to testing only on the ESC and ELR tests or only on the ETC test for type approval to row A of the tables in section 6.2.1 are subject to those applicable tests for the checking of production conformity. With the agreement of the authority, all other engines type approved to row A, B1 or B2, or C of the tables in section 6.2.1 are subjected to testing either on the ESC and ELR cycles or on the ETC cycle for the checking of the production conformity. The limit values are given in section 6.2.1 of this Annex.9.1.1.1.2.The tests are carried out according to Appendix 1 to this Annex, where the competent authority is satisfied with the production standard deviation given by the manufacturer, in accordance with Annex X to Directive 70/156/EEC, which applies to motor vehicles and their trailers. The tests are carried out according to Appendix 2 to this Annex, where the competent authority is not satisfied with the production standard deviation given by the manufacturer, in accordance with Annex X to Directive 70/156/EEC, which applies to motor vehicles and their trailers. At the manufacturer's request, the tests may be carried out in accordance with Appendix 3 to this Annex.9.1.1.1.3. On the basis of a test of the engine by sampling, the production of a series is regarded as conforming where a pass decision is reached for all the pollutants and non conforming where a fail decision is reached for one pollutant, in accordance with the test criteria applied in the appropriate Appendix. When a pass decision has been reached for one pollutant, this decision may not be changed by any additional tests made in order to reach a decision for the other pollutants. If no pass decision is reached for all the pollutants and if no fail decision is reached for one pollutant, a test is carried out on another engine (see Figure 2). If no decision is reached, the manufacturer may at any time decide to stop testing. In that case a fail decision is recorded.9.1.1.2. The tests will be carried out on newly manufactured engines. Gas fuelled engines shall be run-in using the procedure defined in paragraph 3 of Appendix 2 to Annex III.9.1.1.2.1. However, at the request of the manufacturer, the tests may be carried out on diesel or gas engines which have been run-in more than the period referred to in section 9.1.1.2, up to a maximum of 100 hours. In this case, the running-in procedure will be conducted by the manufacturer who shall undertake not to make any adjustments to those engines.9.1.1.2.2. When the manufacturer asks to conduct a running-in procedure in accordance with section 9.1.1.2.1, it may be carried out on:- all the engines that are tested,- or,- the first engine tested, with the determination of an evolution coefficient as follows:- the pollutant emissions will be measured at zero and at "x" hours on the first engine tested,- the evolution coefficient of the emissions between zero and "x" hours will be calculated for each pollutant: Emissions "x" hours/Emissions zero hours It may be less than one. The subsequent test engines will not be subjected to the running-in procedure, but their zero hour emissions will be modified by the evolution coefficient. In this case, the values to be taken will be:- the values at "x" hours for the first engine,- the values at zero hour multiplied by the evolution coefficient for the other engines.9.1.1.2.3.For diesel and LPG fuelled engines, all these tests may be conducted with commercial fuel. However, at the manufacturer's request, the reference fuels described in Annex IV may be used.
However, at the manufacturer's request, the reference fuels described in Annex IV may be used. This implies tests, as described in section 4 of this Annex, with at least two of the reference fuels for each gas engine. 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 69.1.1.2.4. For NG fuelled engines, all these tests may be conducted with commercial fuel in the following way:- for H marked engines with a commercial fuel within the H-range (0,89 Së 1,00),- for L marked engines with a commercial fuel within the L-range (1,00 Së 1,19),- for HL marked engines with a commercial fuel within the extreme range of the ë-shift factor (0,89 Së 1,19). However, at the manufacturer's request, the reference fuels described in Annex IV may be used. This implies tests, as described in section 4 of this Annex.9.1.1.2.5. In the case of dispute caused by the non-compliance of gas fuelled engines when using a commercial fuel, the tests shall be performed with a reference fuel on which the parent engine has been tested, or whith the possible additional fuel 3 as referred to in paragraphs 4.1.3.1 and 4.2.1.1 on which the parent engine may have been tested. Then, the result has to be converted by a calculation applying the relevant factor(s) «r», «ra» or «rb» as described in paragraphs 4.1.4, 4.1.5.1 and 4.2.1.2. If r, ra or rb are less than 1 no correction shall take place. The measured results and the calculated results must demonstrate that the engine meets the limit values with all relevant fuels (fuels 1, 2 and, if applicable, fuel 3 in the case of natural gas engines and fuels A and B in the case of LPG engines). 1999/96/EC Art. 1(3) and Annex9.1.1.2.6. Tests for conformity of production of a gas fuelled engine laid out for operation on one specific fuel composition shall be performed on the fuel for which the engine has been calibrated.Figure 2Schematic of production conformity testing>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>Appendix 1PROCEDURE FOR PRODUCTION CONFORMITY TESTING WHEN STANDARD DEVIATION IS SATISFACTORY1. This Appendix describes the procedure to be used to verify production conformity for the emissions of pollutants when the manufacturer's production standard deviation is satisfactory.2. With a minimum sample size of three engines the sampling procedure is set so that the probability of a lot passing a test with 40% of the engines defective is 0,95 (producer's risk = 5%) while the probability of a lot being accepted with 65% of the engines defective is 0,10 (consumer's risk = 10%).3. The following procedure is used for each of the pollutants given in section 6.2.1 of Annex I (see Figure 2): Let:>TABLE POSITION>4. For each sample the sum of the standardised deviations to the limit is calculated using the following formula:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>5. Then:- if the test statistic result is greater than the pass decision number for the sample size given in table 3, a pass decision is reached for the pollutant;- if the test statistic result is less than the fail decision number for the sample size given in table 3, a fail decision is reached for the pollutant;- otherwise, an additional engine is tested according to section 9.1.1.1 of Annex I and the calculation procedure is applied to the sample increased by one more unit.Table 3Pass and Fail Decision Numbers of Appendix 1 Sampling PlanMinimum sample size: 3>TABLE POSITION>Appendix 2PROCEDURE FOR PRODUCTION CONFORMITY TESTING WHEN STANDARD DEVIATION IS UNSATISFACTORY OR UNAVAILABLE1. This Appendix describes the procedure to be used to verify production conformity for the emissions of pollutants when the manufacturer's production standard deviation is either unsatisfactory or unavailable.2. With a minimum sample size of three engines the sampling procedure is set so that the probability of a lot passing a test with 40 % of the engines defective is 0,95 (producer's risk = 5 %) while the probability of a lot being accepted with 65 % of the engines defective is 0,10 (consumer's risk = 10 %).3. The values of the pollutants given in section 6.2.1 of Annex I are considered to be log normally distributed and should be transformed by taking their natural logarithms. Let m0 and m denote the minimum and maximum sample size respectively (m0 = 3 and m = 32) and let n denote the current sample number.4. If the natural logarithms of the values measured in the series are x1, x2,... xi and L is the natural logarithm of the limit value for the pollutant, then, define >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>5. Table 4 shows values of the pass (An) and fail (Bn) decision numbers against current sample number. The test statistic result is the ratio and shall be used to determine whether the series has passed or failed as follows: >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> and shall be used to determine whether the series has passed or failed as follows: For m0 n m:- pass the series if >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>,- fail the series if >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>,- take another measurement if >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>.6. Remarks The following recursive formulae are useful for calculating successive values of the test statistic:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>Table 4Table 4 Pass and Fail Decision Numbers of Appendix 2 Sampling PlanMinimum sample size: 3>TABLE POSITION>Appendix 3PROCEDURE FOR PRODUCTION CONFORMITY TESTING AT MANUFACTURER'S REQUEST1. This Appendix describes the procedure to be used to verify, at the manufacturer's request, production conformity for the emissions of pollutants.2. With a minimum sample size of three engines the sampling procedure is set so that the probability of a lot passing a test with 30% of the engines defective is 0,90 (producer's risk = 10%) while the probability of a lot being accepted with 65% of the engines defective is 0,10 (consumer's risk = 10%).3. The following procedure is used for each of the pollutants given in section 6.2.1 of Annex I (see Figure 2): Let:>TABLE POSITION>4. Calculate for the sample the test statistic quantifying the number of non-conforming engines, i.e. xi L.5. Then:- if the test statistic is less than or equal to the pass decision number for the sample size given in Table 5, a pass decision is reached for the pollutant;- if the test statistic is greater than or equal to the fail decision number for the sample size given in Table 5, a fail decision is reached for the pollutant;- otherwise, an additional engine is tested according to section 9.1.1.1 of Annex I and the calculation procedure is applied to the sample increased by one more unit. In Table 5 the pass and fail decision numbers are calculated by means of the International Standard ISO 8422/1991.Table 5Pass and Fail Decision Numbers of Appendix 3 Sampling PlanMinimum sample size: 3>TABLE POSITION>ANNEX IIINFORMATION DOCUMENT No [...]IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANNEX l OF COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 70/156/EEC RELATING TO EC TYPE APPROVALand referring to measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from compression-ignition engines for use in vehicles, and the emission of gaseous pollutants from positive-ignition engines fuelled with natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas for use in vehicles(DIRECTIVE 88/77/EEC as last amended by Directive 2001/27/EC)Vehicle type/parent engine/engine type [39]: [39] Delete as appropriate.0. GENERAL0.l. Make (name of undertaking): 0.2. Type and commercial description (mention any variants): 0.3. Means and location of identification of type, if marked on the vehicle: 0.4. Category of vehicle (if applicable): 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 70.5 Category of engine: diesel/NG fuelled/LPG fuelled/ethanol fuelled (1): 1999/96/EC Art. 1 and Annex0.6. Name and address of manufacturer: 0.7. Location of statutory plates and inscriptions and method of affixing: 0.8. In the case of components and separate technical units, location and method of affixing of the EC approval mark: 0.9. Address(es) of assembly plant(s): ATTACHMENTS1.
GENERAL0.l. Make (name of undertaking): 0.2. Type and commercial description (mention any variants): 0.3. Means and location of identification of type, if marked on the vehicle: 0.4. Category of vehicle (if applicable): 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 70.5 Category of engine: diesel/NG fuelled/LPG fuelled/ethanol fuelled (1): 1999/96/EC Art. 1 and Annex0.6. Name and address of manufacturer: 0.7. Location of statutory plates and inscriptions and method of affixing: 0.8. In the case of components and separate technical units, location and method of affixing of the EC approval mark: 0.9. Address(es) of assembly plant(s): ATTACHMENTS1. Essential characteristics of the (parent) engine and information concerning the conduct of test.2. Essential characteristics of the engine family3. Essential characteristics of the engine types within the family4. Characteristics of the engine-related vehicle parts (if applicable).5. Photographs and/or drawings of the parent engine engine type and, if applicable, of the engine compartment.6. List further attachments if any.Date, FileAppendix 1ESSENTIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE (PARENT) ENGINE AND INFORMATION CONCERNING THE CONDUCT OF TEST [40][40] In the case of non-conventional engines and systems, particulars equivalent to those referred to here shall be supplied by the manufacturer.1. Description of engine1.1. Manufacturer:. 1.2. Manufacturer's engine code: 1.3. Cycle: four stroke / two stroke [41]:[41] Strike out what does not apply.1.4. Number and arrangement of cylinders: 1.4.1. Bore: mm1.4.2. Stroke: mm1.4.3. Firing order: 1.5. Engine capacity: cm³1.6. Volumetric compression ratio [42]: [42] Specify the tolerance.1.7. Drawing(s) of combustion chamber and piston crown: 1.8. Minimum cross-sectional area of inlet and outlet ports: cm 1.9. Idling speed: min-11.10. Maximum net power: kW at min-11.11. Maximum permitted engine speed: min-11.12. Maximum net torque: Nm at min-11.13. Combustion system: compression ignition/positive ignition (2) 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 71.14. Fuel: Diesel/LPG/NG-H/NG-L/NG-HL/ethanol (2) 1999/96/EC Art. 1 and Annex1.15. Cooling system1.15.1. Liquid1.15.1.1. Nature of liquid: 1.15.1.2. Circulating pump(s): yes/no (2)1.15.1.3. Characteristics or make(s) and type(s) (if applicable): 1.15.1.4. Drive ratio(s) (if applicable): 1.15.2. Air1.15.2.1. Blower: yes/no [43][43] Strike out what does not apply.1.15.2.2. Characteristics or make(s) and type(s) (if applicable): 1.15.2.3. Drive ratio(s) (if applicable): 1.16. Temperature permitted by the manufacturer1.16.1. Liquid cooling: Maximum temperature at outlet: K1.16.2. Air cooling: reference point: Maximum temperature at reference point: K1.16.3. Maximum temperature of the air at the outlet of the intake intercooler (if applicable): 1.16.4. Maximum exhaust temperature at the point in the exhaust pipe(s) adjacent to the outer flange(s) of the exhaust manifold(s) or turbocharger(s): K1.16.5. Fuel temperature: min. K, max. K for diesel engines at injection pump inlet, for gas fuelled engines at pressure regulator final stage1.16.6. Fuel pressure: min. kPa, max. kPa at pressure regulator final stage, NG fuelled gas engines only1.16.7. Lubricant temperature: min. K, max. K1.17. Pressure charger: yes/no(2)1.17.1. Make: 1.17.2. Type: 1.17.3. Description of the system (e.g. max. charge pressure, wastegate, if applicable): 1.17.4. Intercooler: yes/no(2) 1.18. Intake system Maximum allowable intake depression at rated engine speed and at 100 % load as specified in and under the operating conditions of Directive 80/1269/EEC [44], as last amended by Directive 97/21/EC [45]: kPa[44] OJ L 375, 31.12.1980, p. 46.[45] OJ L 125, 16.05.1997, p. 31.1.19. Exhaust system Maximum allowable exhaust back pressure at rated engine speed and at 100 % load as specified in and under the operating conditions of Directive 80/1269/EEC (4), as last amended by Directive 97/21/EC (5): kPa Exhaust system volume: dm³2. Measures taken against air pollution2.1. Device for recycling crankcase gases (description and drawings): 2.2. Additional anti-pollution devices (if any, and if not covered by another heading) 2.2.1. Catalytic converter: yes/no [46][46] Strike out what does not apply.2.2.1.1. Make(s): 2.2.1.2. Type(s): 2.2.1.3. Number of catalytic converters and elements: 2.2.1.4. Dimensions, shape and volume of the catalytic converter(s): 2.2.1.5. Type of catalytic action: 2.2.1.6. Total charge of precious metals: 2.2.1.7. Relative concentration: 2.2.1.8. Substrate (structure and material): 2.2.1.9. Cell density: 2.2.1.10. Type of casing for the catalytic converter(s): 2.2.1.11. Location of the catalytic converter(s) (place and reference distance in the exhaust line): 2.2.2. Oxygen sensor: yes/no (2)2.2.2.1. Make(s): 2.2.2.2. Type: 2.2.2.3. Location: 2.2.3. Air injection: yes/no [47][47] Strike out what does not apply.2.2.3.1. Type (pulse air, air pump, etc.): 2.2.4. EGR: yes/no(2)2.2.4.1. Characteristics (flow rate etc.): 2.2.5. Particulate trap: yes/no (2):2.2.5.1. Dimensions, shape and capacity of the particulate trap: 2.2.5.2. Type and design of the particulate trap: 2.2.5.3. Location (reference distance in the exhaust line): 2.2.5.4. Method or system of regeneration, description and/or drawing: 2.2.6. Other systems: yes/no (2)2.2.6.1. Description and operation: 3. Fuel feed3.1. Diesel engines3.1.1. Feed pump Pressure (3): kPa or characteristic diagram (2): 3.1.2. Injection system3.1.2.1. Pump3.1.2.1.1. Make(s): 3.1.2.1.2. Type(s): 3.1.2.1.3. Delivery: mm³ [48] per stroke at engine speed of rpm at full injection, or characteristic diagram(2)(3) [48] Specify the tolerance. Mention the method used: On engine/on pump bench (2) If boost control is supplied, state the characteristic fuel delivery and boost pressure versus engine speed.
Mention the method used: On engine/on pump bench (2) If boost control is supplied, state the characteristic fuel delivery and boost pressure versus engine speed. 3.1.2.1.4. Injection advance3.1.2.1.4.1. Injection advance curve [49]: [49] Specify the tolerance.3.1.2.1.4.2. Static injection timing(3): 3.1.2.2. Injection piping3.1.2.2.1. Length: mm3.1.2.2.2. Internal diameter: mm3.1.2.3. Injector(s)3.1.2.3.1. Make(s): 3.1.2.3.2. Type(s): 3.1.2.3.3. "Opening pressure": kPa(3) or characteristic diagram [50](3): [50] Strike out what does not apply.3.1.2.4. Governor3.1.2.4.1. Make(s): 3.1.2.4.2. Type(s): 3.1.2.4.3. Speed at which cut-off starts under full load: rpm3.1.2.4.4. Maximum no-load speed: rpm3.1.2.4.5. Idling speed: rpm3.1.3. Cold start system3.1.3.1. Make(s): 3.1.3.2. Type(s): 3.1.3.3. Description: 3.1.3.4. Auxiliary starting aid: 3.1.3.4.1. Make: 3.1.3.4.2. Type: 3.2. Gas fuelled engines [51][51] In the case of systems laid-out in a different manner, supply equivalent information (for paragraph 3.2).3.2.1. Fuel: Natural gas/LPG [52][52] Strike out what does not apply.3.2.2. Pressure regulator(s) or vaporiser/pressure regulator(s) [53][53] Specify the tolerance.3.2.2.1. Make(s): 3.2.2.2. Type(s): 3.2.2.3. Number of pressure reduction stages: 3.2.2.4. Pressure in final stage: min. kPa, max. kPa3.2.2.5. Number of main adjustment points:3.2.2.6. Number of idle adjustment points: 3.2.2.7. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.3. Fuelling system: mixing unit / gas injection / liquid injection / direct injection(2)3.2.3.1. Mixture strength regulation: 3.2.3.2. System description and/or diagram and drawings: 3.2.3.3. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.4. Mixing unit3.2.4.1. Number: 3.2.4.2. Make(s): 3.2.4.3. Type(s): 3.2.4.4. Location: 3.2.4.5. Adjustment possibilities: 3.2.4.6. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC:+ 3.2.5. Inlet manifold injection3.2.5.1. Injection: single point/multipoint(2)3.2.5.2. Injection: continuous/simultaneously timed/sequentially timed [54][54] Strike out what does not apply.3.2.5.3. Injection equipment3.2.5.3.1. Make(s): 3.2.5.3.2. Type(s): 3.2.5.3.3. Adjustment possibilities: 3.2.5.3.4. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.5.4. Supply pump (if applicable): 3.2.5.4.1. Make(s): 3.2.5.4.2. Type(s): 3.2.5.4.3 Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.5.5. Injector(s): 3.2.5.5.1. Make(s): 3.2.5.5.2. Type(s): 3.2.5.5.3. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.6. Direct injection3.2.6.1. Injection pump / pressure regulator(2)3.2.6.1.1. Make(s): 3.2.6.1.2. Type(s): 3.2.6.1.3 .Injection timing: 3.2.6.1.4. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.6.2. Injector(s)3.2.6.2.1. Make(s): 3.2.6.2.2. Type(s): 3.2.6.2.3. Opening pressure or characteristic diagram [55]: [55] Specify the tolerance.3.2.6.2.4. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.7. Electronic control unit (ECU)3.2.7.1. Make(s): 3.2.7.2. Type(s): 3.2.7.3. Adjustment possibilities: 3.2.8. NG fuel-specific equipment3.2.8.1. Variant 1 (only in the case of approvals of engines for several specific fuel compositions)3.2.8.1.1. Fuel composition: methane (CH4): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole ethane (C2H6): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole propane (C3H8): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole butane (C4H10): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole C5/C5+: basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole oxygen (O2): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole inert (N2, He etc): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole3.2.8.1.2. Injector(s)3.2.8.1.2.1. Make(s): 3.2.8.1.2.2. Type(s): 3.2.8.1.3. Others (if applicable)3.2.8.2. Variant 2 (only in the case of approvals for several specific fuel compositions)4. Valve timing4.1. Maximum lift of valves and angles of opening and closing in relation to dead centres of equivalent data: 4.2. Reference and/or setting ranges [56]: [56] Strike out what does not apply.5. Ignition system (spark ignition engines only)5.1. Ignition system type:common coil and plugs/individual coil and plugs/coil on plug/other (specify)(2)5.2. Ignition control unit5.2.1. Make(s): 5.2.2. Type(s): 5.3. Ignition advance curve / advance map) [57] [58]: [57] Strike out what does not apply.[58] Specify the tolerance.5.4. Ignition timing(3): degrees before TDC at a speed of rpm and a MAP of Pa5.5. Spark plugs5.5.1. Make(s): 5.5.2. Type(s): 5.5.3. Gap setting: mm5.6. Ignition coil(s)5.6.1. Make(s): 5.6.2. Type(s): 6. Engine-driven equipment The engine shall be submitted for testing with the auxiliaries needed for operating the engine (e.g. fan, water pump etc.), as specified in and under the operating conditions of Directive 80/1269/EEC [59], as last amended by Directive 97/21/EC [60], Annex I, section 5.1.1.[59] OJ L 375, 31.12.1980, p. 46.[60] OJ L 125, 16.05.1997, p. 31.6.1. Auxiliaries to be fitted for the test If it is impossible or inappropriate to install the auxiliaries on the test bench, the power absorbed by them shall be determined and subtracted from the measured engine power over the whole operating area of the test cycle(s).6.2. Auxiliaries to be removed for the test Auxiliaries needed only for the operation of the vehicle (e.g. air compressor, air-conditioning system etc.) shall be removed for the test. Where the auxiliaries cannot be removed, the power absorbed by them may be determined and added to the measured engine power over the whole operating area of the test cycle(s). 7. Additional information on test conditions7.1. Lubricant used7.1.1. Make: 7.1.2. Type: (State percentage of oil in mixture if lubricant and fuel are mixed): 7.2. Engine-driven equipment (if applicable) The power absorbed by the auxiliaries needs only be determined:- if auxiliaries needed for operating the engine are not fitted to the engine, and/or- if auxiliaries not needed for operating the engine are fitted to the engine.7.2.1. Enumeration and identifying details: 7.2.2. Power absorbed at various indicated engine speeds:>TABLE POSITION>8. Engine performance8.1. Engine speeds [61][61] Specify the tolerance; to be within ( 3% of the values declared by the manufacturer. Low speed (nlo): rpm High speed (nhi): rpm for ESC and ELR Cycles Idle: rpm Speed A: rpm Speed B: rpm Speed C: rpm for ETC cycle Reference speed: rpm8.2. Engine power (measured in accordance with the provisions of Directive 80/1269/EEC [62], as last amended by Directive 97/21/EC [63] in kW[62] OJ L 375, 31.12.1980, p. 46.[63] OJ L 125, 16.05.1997, p. 31.>TABLE POSITION>8.3. Dynamometer settings (kW) The dynamometer settings for the ESC and ELR tests and for the reference cycle of the ETC test shall be based upon the net engine power P(n) of section 8.2. It is recommended to install the engine on the test bed in the net condition. In this case, P(m) and P(n) are identical. If it is impossible or inappropriate to operate the engine under net conditions, the dynamometer settings shall be corrected to net conditions using the above formula.8.3.1. ESC and ELR Tests The dynamometer settings shall be calculated according to the formula in Annex III, Appendix 1, section 1.2.>TABLE POSITION>8.3.2. ETC Test If the engine is not tested under net conditions, the correction formula for converting the measured power or measured cycle work, as determined according to Annex III, Appendix 2, section 2, to net power or net cycle work shall be submitted by the engine manufacturer for the whole operating area of the cycle, and approved by the Technical Service.Appendix 2ESSENTIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE ENGINE FAMILY1. Common parameters1.1. Combustion cycle: 1.2. Cooling medium: 1.3. Number of cylinders [64]: [64] If not applicable, mark n.a.1.4. Individual cylinder displacement: 1.5. Method of air aspiration: 1.6. Combustion chamber type/design: 1.7. Valve and porting - configuration, size and number: 1.8. Fuel system: 1.9. Ignition system (gas engines): 1.10.
Combustion cycle: 1.2. Cooling medium: 1.3. Number of cylinders [64]: [64] If not applicable, mark n.a.1.4. Individual cylinder displacement: 1.5. Method of air aspiration: 1.6. Combustion chamber type/design: 1.7. Valve and porting - configuration, size and number: 1.8. Fuel system: 1.9. Ignition system (gas engines): 1.10. Miscellaneous features:- charge cooling system (1): - exhaust gas recirculation (1): - water injection/emulsion (1): - air injection (1): 1.11. Exhaust aftertreatment (1): Proof of identical (or lowest for the parent engine) ratio: system capacity/fuel delivery per stroke, pursuant to diagram number(s): 2. Engine family listing2.1. Name of diesel engine family: 2.1.1. Specification of engines within this family: >TABLE POSITION>2.2. Name of gas engine family: 2.2.1. Specification of engines within this family:>TABLE POSITION>__________________________________>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>(1) If not applicable, mark n.a.Appendix 3 ESSENTIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE ENGINE TYPE WITHIN THE FAMILY [65][65] To be submitted for each engine of the family.1. Description of engine1.1. Manufacturer: 1.2. Manufacturer's engine code: 1.3. Cycle: four stroke / two stroke [66]: [66] Strike out what does not apply.1.4. Number and arrangement of cylinders: 1.4.1. Bore: mm1.4.2. Stroke: mm1.4.3. Firing order: 1.5. Engine capacity: cm³1.6. Volumetric compression ratio [67]: [67] Specify the tolerance.1.7. Drawing(s) of combustion chamber and piston crown: 1.8. Minimum cross-sectional area of inlet and outlet ports: cm 1.9. Idling speed: min-11.10. Maximum net power: kW at min-11.11. Maximum permitted engine speed: min-11.12. Maximum net torque: Nm at min-11.13. Combustion system: compression ignition/positive ignition(2) 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 71.14. Fuel: Diesel/LPG/NG-H/NG-L/NG-HL/ethanol (2) 1999/96/EC Art. 1 and Annex1.15. Cooling system1.15.1. Liquid1.15.1.1. Nature of liquid: 1.15.1.2. Circulating pump(s): yes/no (2)1.15.1.3. Characteristics or make(s) and type(s) (if applicable): 1.15.1.4. Drive ratio(s) (if applicable): 1.15.2. Air1.15.2.1. Blower: yes/no [68][68] Strike out what does not apply.1.15.2.2. Characteristics or make(s) and type(s) (if applicable): 1.15.2.3. Drive ratio(s) (if applicable): 1.16. Temperature permitted by the manufacturer1.16.1. Liquid cooling: Maximum temperature at outlet: K1.16.2. Air cooling: reference point: Maximum temperature at reference point: K1.16.3. Maximum temperature of the air at the outlet of the intake intercooler (if applicable): K1.16.4. Maximum exhaust temperature at the point in the exhaust pipe(s) adjacent to the outer flange(s) of the exhaust manifold(s) or turbocharger(s): K1.16.5. Fuel temperature: min. K, max. K for diesel engines at injection pump inlet, for gas fuelled engines at pressure regulator final stage1.16.6. Fuel pressure: min. kPa, max. kPa at pressure regulator final stage, NG fuelled gas engines only1.16.7. Lubricant temperature: min. K, max. K1.17. Pressure charger: yes/no(2)1.17.1. Make: 1.17.2. Type: 1.17.3. Description of the system (e.g. max. charge pressure, wastegate, if applicable): 1.17.4. Intercooler: yes/no(2) 1.18. Intake system Maximum allowable intake depression at rated engine speed and at 100 % load as specified in and under the operating conditions of Directive 80/1269/EEC [69], as last amended by Directive 97/21/EC [70]: kPa[69] OJ L 375, 31.12.1980, p.46.[70] OJ L 125, 16.05.1997, p.31.1.19. Exhaust system Maximum allowable exhaust back pressure at rated engine speed and at 100 % load as specified in and under the operating conditions of Directive 80/1269/EEC(4), as last amended by Directive 97/21/EC(5): kPa Exhaust system volume: dm³2. Measures taken against air pollution2.1. Device for recycling crankcase gases (description and drawings): 2.2. Additional anti-pollution devices (if any, and if not covered by another heading) 2.2.1. Catalytic converter: yes/no [71][71] Strike out what does not apply.2.2.1.1. Make(s): 2.2.1.2. Type(s): 2.2.1.3. Number of catalytic converters and elements: 2.2.1.4. Dimensions, shape and volume of the catalytic converter(s): 2.2.1.5. Type of catalytic action: 2.2.1.6. Total charge of precious metals: 2.2.1.7. Relative concentration: 2.2.1.8. Substrate (structure and material): 2.2.1.9. Cell density: 2.2.1.10. Type of casing for the catalytic converter(s): 2.2.1.11. Location of the catalytic converter(s) (place and reference distance in the exhaust line): 2.2.2. Oxygen sensor: yes/no(2)2.2.2.1. Make(s): 2.2.2.2. Type: 2.2.2.3. Location: 2.2.3. Air injection: yes/no [72][72] Strike out what does not apply.2.2.3.1. Type (pulse air, air pump, etc.): 2.2.4. EGR: yes/no (2)2.2.4.1. Characteristics (flow rate etc.): 2.2.5. Particulate trap: yes/no(2): 2.2.5.1. Dimensions, shape and capacity of the particulate trap: 2.2.5.2. Type and design of the particulate trap: 2.2.5.3. Location (reference distance in the exhaust line): 2.2.5.4. Method or system of regeneration, description and/or drawing: 2.2.6. Other systems: yes/no(2)2.2.6.1. Description and operation: 3. Fuel feed3.1. Diesel engines3.1.1. Feed pump Pressure [73]: kPa or characteristic diagram(2): [73] Specify the tolerance.3.1.2. Injection system3.1.2.1. Pump3.1.2.1.1. Make(s): 3.1.2.1.2. Type(s): 3.1.2.1.3. Delivery: mm³(3) per stroke at engine speed of rpm at full injection, or characteristic diagram(2)(3): Mention the method used: On engine/on pump bench(2) If boost control is supplied, state the characteristic fuel delivery and boost pressure versus engine speed.
Location of the catalytic converter(s) (place and reference distance in the exhaust line): 2.2.2. Oxygen sensor: yes/no(2)2.2.2.1. Make(s): 2.2.2.2. Type: 2.2.2.3. Location: 2.2.3. Air injection: yes/no [72][72] Strike out what does not apply.2.2.3.1. Type (pulse air, air pump, etc.): 2.2.4. EGR: yes/no (2)2.2.4.1. Characteristics (flow rate etc.): 2.2.5. Particulate trap: yes/no(2): 2.2.5.1. Dimensions, shape and capacity of the particulate trap: 2.2.5.2. Type and design of the particulate trap: 2.2.5.3. Location (reference distance in the exhaust line): 2.2.5.4. Method or system of regeneration, description and/or drawing: 2.2.6. Other systems: yes/no(2)2.2.6.1. Description and operation: 3. Fuel feed3.1. Diesel engines3.1.1. Feed pump Pressure [73]: kPa or characteristic diagram(2): [73] Specify the tolerance.3.1.2. Injection system3.1.2.1. Pump3.1.2.1.1. Make(s): 3.1.2.1.2. Type(s): 3.1.2.1.3. Delivery: mm³(3) per stroke at engine speed of rpm at full injection, or characteristic diagram(2)(3): Mention the method used: On engine/on pump bench(2) If boost control is supplied, state the characteristic fuel delivery and boost pressure versus engine speed. 3.1.2.1.4. Injection advance3.1.2.1.4.1. Injection advance curve [74]: [74] Specify the tolerance.3.1.2.1.4.2. Static injection timing(3): 3.1.2.2. Injection piping3.1.2.2.1. Length: mm3.1.2.2.2. Internal diameter: mm3.1.2.3. Injector(s)3.1.2.3.1. Make(s): 3.1.2.3.2. Type(s): 3.1.2.3.3. "Opening pressure": kPa(3) or characteristic diagram [75](3):[75] Strike out what does not apply.3.1.2.4. Governor3.1.2.4.1. Make(s): 3.1.2.4.2. Type(s): 3.1.2.4.3. Speed at which cut-off starts under full load: rpm3.1.2.4.4. Maximum no-load speed: rpm3.1.2.4.5. Idling speed: rpm3.1.3. Cold start system3.1.3.1. Make(s): 3.1.3.2. Type(s): 3.1.3.3. Description: 3.1.3.4. Auxiliary starting aid: 3.1.3.4.1. Make: 3.1.3.4.2. Type: 3.2. Gas fuelled engines [76][76] In the case of systems laid-out in a different manner, supply equivalent information (for paragraph 3.2).3.2.1. Fuel: Natural gas/LPG(2)3.2.2. Pressure regulator(s) or vaporiser/pressure regulator(s) [77][77] Specify the tolerance3.2.2.1. Make(s): 3.2.2.2. Type(s): 3.2.2.3. Number of pressure reduction stages: 3.2.2.4. Pressure in final stage: min. kPa, max. kPa3.2.2.5. Number of main adjustment points: 3.2.2.6. Number of idle adjustment points: 3.2.2.7. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.3. Fuelling system: mixing unit / gas injection / liquid injection / direct injection [78] [78] Strike out what does not apply3.2.3.1. Mixture strength regulation: 3.2.3.2. System description and/or diagram and drawings: 3.2.3.3. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.4. Mixing unit3.2.4.1. Number: 3.2.4.2. Make(s): 3.2.4.3. Type(s): 3.2.4.4. Location: 3.2.4.5. Adjustment possibilities: 3.2.4.6. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.5. Inlet manifold injection3.2.5.1. Injection: single point/multipoint(2)3.2.5.2. Injection: continuous/simultaneously timed/sequentially timed(2)3.2.5.3. Injection equipment3.2.5.3.1. Make(s): 3.2.5.3.2. Type(s): 3.2.5.3.3. Adjustment possibilities: 3.2.5.3.4. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.5.4. Supply pump (if applicable):3.2.5.4.1. Make(s): 3.2.5.4.2. Type(s): 3.2.5.4.3. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.5.5. Injector(s):3.2.5.5.1. Make(s): 3.2.5.5.2. Type(s): 3.2.5.5.3. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.6. Direct injection3.2.6.1. Injection pump / pressure regulator [79][79] Strike out what does not apply3.2.6.1.1. Make(s): 3.2.6.1.2. Type(s): 3.2.6.1.3. Injection timing: 3.2.6.1.4. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.6.2. Injector(s)3.2.6.2.1. Make(s): 3.2.6.2.2. Type(s): 3.2.6.2.3. Opening pressure or characteristic diagram [80]: [80] Specify the tolerance3.2.6.2.4. Certification number according to Directive 1999/96/EC: 3.2.7. Electronic control unit (ECU)3.2.7.1. Make(s): 3.2.7.2. Type(s): 3.2.7.3. Adjustment possibilities: 3.2.8. NG fuel-specific equipment3.2.8.1. Variant 1 (only in the case of approvals of engines for several specific fuel compositions)3.2.8.1.1. Fuel composition: methane (CH4): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole ethane (C2H6): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole propane (C3H8): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole butane (C4H10): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole C5/C5+: basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole oxygen (O2): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole inert (N2, He etc): basis: %mole min. %mole max. %mole3.2.8.1.2 Injector(s)3.2.8.1.2.1. Make(s): 3.2.8.1.2.2. Type(s): 3.2.8.1.3. Others (if applicable)3.2.8.2. Variant 2 (only in the case of approvals for several specific fuel compositions)4. Valve timing4.1. Maximum lift of valves and angles of opening and closing in relation to dead centres of equivalent data: 4.2. Reference and/or setting ranges [81]: [81] Strike out what does not apply5. Ignition system (spark ignition engines only)5.1. Ignition system type: common coil and plugs/individual coil and plugs/coil on plug/other (specify)(2)5.2. Ignition control unit5.2.1. Make(s): 5.2.2. Type(s): 5.3. Ignition advance curve / advance map(2) [82]: [82] Specify the tolerance5.4. Ignition timing (3): degrees before TDC at a speed of rpm and a MAP of kPa5.5. Spark plugs5.5.1. Make(s): 5.5.2. Type(s): 5.5.3. Gap setting: mm5.6. Ignition coil(s)5.6.1. Make(s): 5.6.2. Type(s): Appendix 4CHARACTERISTICS OF THE ENGINE-RELATED VEHICLE PARTS1. Intake system depression at rated engine speed and at 100% load: kPa2. Exhaust system back pressure at rated engine speed and at 100% load: kPa3. Volume of exhaust system: cm³4. Power absorbed by the auxiliaries needed for operating the engine as specified in and under the operation conditions of Directive 80/1269/EEC [83], as last amended by Directive 97/21/EC [84], Annex I, section 5.1.1.[83] OJ L 375, 31.12.1980, p. 46.[84] OJ L 125, 16.05.1997, p. 31.>TABLE POSITION>ANNEX IIITEST PROCEDURE1. INTRODUCTION1.1. This Annex describes the methods of determining emissions of gaseous components, particulates and smoke from the engines to be tested. Three test cycles are described that shall be applied according to the provisions of Annex I, section 6.2:- the ESC which consists of a steady state 13-mode cycle,- the ELR which consists of transient load steps at different speeds, which are integral parts of one test procedure, and are run concurrently,- the ETC which consists of a second-by-second sequence of transient modes.1.2. The test shall be carried out with the engine mounted on a test bench and connected to a dynamometer.1.3. Measurement principle The emissions to be measured from the exhaust of the engine include the gaseous components (carbon monoxide, total hydrocarbons for diesel engines on the ESC test only; non-methane hydrocarbons for diesel and gas engines on the ETC test only; methane for gas engines on the ETC test only and oxides of nitrogen), the particulates (diesel engines only) and smoke (diesel engines on the ELR test only). Additionally, carbon dioxide is often used as a tracer gas for determining the dilution ratio of partial and full flow dilution systems. Good engineering practice recommends the general measurement of carbon dioxide as an excellent tool for the detection of measurement problems during the test run.1.3.1. ESC Test During a prescribed sequence of warmed-up engine operating conditions the amounts of the above exhaust emissions shall be examined continuously by taking a sample from the raw exhaust gas. The test cycle consists of a number of speed and power modes which cover the typical operating range of diesel engines. During each mode the concentration of each gaseous pollutant, exhaust flow and power output shall be determined, and the measured values weighted. The particulate sample shall be diluted with conditioned ambient air.
The particulate sample shall be diluted with conditioned ambient air. One sample over the complete test procedure shall be taken, and collected on suitable filters. The grams of each pollutant emitted per kilowatt hour shall be calculated as described in Appendix 1 to this Annex. Additionally, NOx shall be measured at three test points within the control area selected by the Technical Service [85] and the measured values compared to the values calculated from those modes of the test cycle enveloping the selected test points. The NOx control check ensures the effectiveness of the emission control of the engine within the typical engine operating range.[85] The test points shall be selected using approved statistical methods of randomisation.1.3.2. ELR Test During a prescribed load response test, the smoke of a warmed-up engine shall be determined by means of an opacimeter. The test consists of loading the engine at constant speed from 10% to 100% load at three different engine speeds. Additionally, a fourth load step selected by the Technical Service [86] shall be run, and the value compared to the values of the previous load steps. The smoke peak shall be determined using an averaging algorithm, as described in Appendix 1 to this Annex.[86] The test points shall be selected using approved statistical methods of randomisation.1.3.3. ETC Test During a prescribed transient cycle of warmed-up engine operating conditions, which is based closely on road-type-specific driving patterns of heavy-duty engines installed in trucks and buses, the above pollutants shall be examined after diluting the total exhaust gas with conditioned ambient air. Using the engine torque and speed feedback signals of the engine dynamometer, the power shall be integrated with respect to time of the cycle resulting in the work produced by the engine over the cycle. The concentration of NOx and HC shall be determined over the cycle by integration of the analyser signal. The concentration of CO, CO2, and NMHC may be determined by integration of the analyser signal or by bag sampling. For particulates, a proportional sample shall be collected on suitable filters. The diluted exhaust gas flow rate shall be determined over the cycle to calculate the mass emission values of the pollutants. The mass emission values shall be related to the engine work to get the grams of each pollutant emitted per kilowatt hour, as described in Appendix 2 to this Annex.2. TEST CONDITIONS2.1. Engine Test Conditions2.1.1. The absolute temperature (Ta) of the engine air at the inlet to the engine expressed in Kelvin, and the dry atmospheric pressure (ps), expressed in kPa shall be measured and the parameter F shall be determined according to the following provisions:(a) for diesel engines: Naturally aspirated and mechanically supercharged engines:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Turbocharged engines with or without cooling of the intake air>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>(b) for gas engines:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>2.1.2. Test Validity For a test to be recognised as valid, the parameter F shall be such that:0,96 F 1,062.2. Engines with Charge Air Cooling The charge air temperature shall be recorded and shall be, at the speed of the declared maximum power and full load, within ± 5 K of the maximum charge air temperature specified in Annex II, Appendix 1, section 1.16.3. The temperature of the cooling medium shall be at least 293 K (20 °C). If a test shop system or external blower is used, the charge air temperature shall be within ± 5 K of the maximum charge air temperature specified in Annex II, Appendix 1, section 1.16.3 at the speed of the declared maximum power and full load. The setting of the charge air cooler for meeting the above conditions shall be used for the whole test cycle.2.3. Engine Air Intake System An engine air intake system shall be used presenting an air intake restriction within ± 100 Pa of the upper limit of the engine operating at the speed at the declared maximum power and full load.2.4. Engine Exhaust System An exhaust system shall be used presenting an exhaust back pressure within ± 1 000 Pa of the upper limit of the engine operating at the speed of declared maximum power and full load and a volume within ± 40 % of that specified by the manufacturer. A test shop system may be used, provided it represents actual engine operating conditions. The exhaust system shall conform to the requirements for exhaust gas sampling, as set out in Annex III, Appendix 4, section 3.4 and in Annex V, section 2.2.1, EP and section 2.3.1, EP. If the engine is equipped with an exhaust aftertreatment device, the exhaust pipe must have the same diameter as found in-use for at least 4 pipe diameters upstream to the inlet of the beginning of the expansion section containing the aftertreatment device. The distance from the exhaust manifold flange or turbocharger outlet to the exhaust aftertreatment device shall be the same as in the vehicle configuration or within the distance specifications of the manufacturer. The exhaust backpressure or restriction shall follow the same criteria as above, and may be set with a valve. The aftertreatment container may be removed during dummy tests and during engine mapping, and replaced with an equivalent container having an inactive catalyst support.2.5. Cooling System An engine cooling system with sufficient capacity to maintain the engine at normal operating temperatures prescribed by the manufacturer shall be used.2.6. Lubricating Oil Specifications of the lubricating oil used for the test shall be recorded and presented with the results of the test, as specified in Annex II, Appendix 1, section 7.1.2.7. Fuel The fuel shall be the reference fuel specified in Annex IV. The fuel temperature and measuring point shall be specified by the manufacturer within the limits given in Annex II, Appendix 1, section 1.16.5. The fuel temperature shall not be lower than 306 K (33 °C). If not specified, it shall be 311 K ± 5 K (38 °C ± 5 °C) at the inlet to the fuel supply. For NG and LPG fuelled engines, the fuel temperature and measuring point shall be within the limits given in Annex II, Appendix 1, section 1.16.5 or in Annex II, Appendix 3, section 1.16.5 in cases where the engine is not a parent engine.2.8. Testing of Exhaust Aftertreatment Systems If the engine is equipped with an exhaust aftertreatment system, the emissions measured on the test cycle(s) shall be representative of the emissions in the field. If this cannot be achieved with one single test cycle (e.g. for particulate filters with periodic regeneration), several test cycles shall be conducted and the test results averaged and/or weighted. The exact procedure shall be agreed by the engine manufacturer and the Technical Service based upon good engineering judgement.Appendix 1ESC AND ELR TEST CYCLES1. ENGINE AND DYNAMOMETER SETTINGS1.1 Determination of Engine Speeds A, B and C The engine speeds A, B and C shall be declared by the manufacturer in accordance with the following provisions: The high speed nhi shall be determined by calculating 70 % of the declared maximum net power P(n), as determined in Annex II, Appendix 1, section 8.2. The highest engine speed where this power value occurs on the power curve is defined as nhi. The low speed nlo shall be determined by calculating 50 % of the declared maximum net power P(n), as determined in Annex II, Appendix 1, section 8.2. The lowest engine speed where this power value occurs on the power curve is defined as nlo. The engine speeds A, B and C shall be calculated as follows: Speed A = nlo + 25 % (nhi 2 nlo) Speed B = nlo + 50 % (nhi 2 nlo) Speed C = nlo + 75 % (nhi 2 nlo). The engine speeds A, B and C may be verified by either of the following methods:a) additional test points shall be measured during engine power approval according to Directive 80/1269/EEC for an accurate determination of nhi and nlo.
The engine speeds A, B and C may be verified by either of the following methods:a) additional test points shall be measured during engine power approval according to Directive 80/1269/EEC for an accurate determination of nhi and nlo. The maximum power, nhi and nlo shall be determined from the power curve, and engine speeds A, B and C shall be calculated according to the above provisions.b) the engine shall be mapped along the full load curve, from maximum no load speed to idle speed, using at least 5 measurement points per 1000 rpm intervals and measurement points within ± 50 rpm of the speed at declared maximum power. The maximum power, nhi and nlo shall be determined from this mapping curve, and engine speeds A, B and C shall be calculated according to the above provisions. If the measured engine speeds A, B and C are within ± 3 % of the engine speeds as declared by the manufacturer, the declared engine speeds shall be used for the emissions test. If the tolerance is exceeded for any of the engine speeds, the measured engine speeds shall be used for the emissions test.1.2. Determination of Dynamometer Settings The torque curve at full load shall be determined by experimentation to calculate the torque values for the specified test modes under net conditions, as specified in Annex II, Appendix 1, section 8.2. The power absorbed by engine-driven equipment, if applicable, shall be taken into account. The dynamometer setting for each test mode shall be calculated using the formula: s = P(n) * (L/100) if tested under net conditions s = P(n) * (L/100) + (P(a) 2 P(b)) if not tested under net conditions where:>TABLE POSITION>2. ESC TEST RUN At the manufacturers request, a dummy test may be run for conditioning of the engine and exhaust system before the measurement cycle.2.1. Preparation of the Sampling Filters At least one hour before the test, each filter (pair) shall be placed in a closed, but unsealed petri dish and placed in a weighing chamber for stabilisation. At the end of the stabilisation period, each filter (pair) shall be weighed and the tare weight shall be recorded. The filter (pair) shall then be stored in a closed petri dish or sealed filter holder until needed for testing. If the filter (pair) is not used within eight hours of its removal from the weighing chamber, it must be conditioned and reweighed before use.2.2. Installation of the Measuring Equipment The instrumentation and sample probes shall be installed as required. When using a full flow dilution system for exhaust gas dilution, the tailpipe shall be connected to the system.2.3. Starting the Dilution System and the Engine The dilution system and the engine shall be started and warmed up until all temperatures and pressures have stabilised at maximum power according to the recommendation of the manufacturer and good engineering practice.2.4. Starting the Particulate Sampling System The particulate sampling system shall be started and running on by-pass. The particulate background level of the dilution air may be determined by passing dilution air through the particulate filters. If filtered dilution air is used, one measurement may be done prior to or after the test. If the dilution air is not filtered, measurements at the beginning and at the end of the cycle, may be done, and the values averaged.2.5. Adjustment of the Dilution Ratio The dilution air shall be set such that the temperature of the diluted exhaust gas measured immediately prior to the primary filter shall not exceed 325 K (52 °C) at any mode. The dilution ratio (q) shall not be less than 4. For systems that use CO2 or NOx concentration measurement for dilution ratio control, the CO2 or NOx content of the dilution air must be measured at the beginning and at the end of each test. The pre- and post test background CO2 or NOx concentration measurements of the dilution air must be within 100 ppm or 5 ppm of each other, respectively.2.6. Checking the Analysers The emission analysers shall be set at zero and spanned.2.7. Test Cycle2.7.1. The following 13-mode cycle shall be followed in dynamometer operation on the test engine>TABLE POSITION>2.7.2. Test Sequence The test sequence shall be started. The test shall be performed in the order of the mode numbers as set out in section 2.7.1. The engine must be operated for the prescribed time in each mode, completing engine speed and load changes in the first 20 seconds. The specified speed shall be held to within ± 50 rpm and the specified torque shall be held to within ± 2% of the maximum torque at the test speed. At the manufacturers request, the test sequence may be repeated a sufficient number of times for sampling more particulate mass on the filter. The manufacturer shall supply a detailed description of the data evaluation and calculation procedures. The gaseous emissions shall only be determined on the first cycle.2.7.3. Analyser Response The output of the analysers shall be recorded on a strip chart recorder or measured with an equivalent data acquisition system with the exhaust gas flowing through the analysers throughout the test cycle.2.7.4. Particulate Sampling One pair of filters (primary and back-up filters, see Annex III, Appendix 4) shall be used for the complete test procedure. The modal weighting factors specified in the test cycle procedure shall be taken into account by taking a sample proportional to the exhaust mass flow during each individual mode of the cycle. This can be achieved by adjusting sample flow rate, sampling time, and/or dilution ratio, accordingly, so that the criterion for the effective weighting factors in section 5.6 is met. The sampling time per mode must be at least 4 seconds per 0,01 weighting factor. Sampling must be conducted as late as possible within each mode. Particulate sampling shall be completed no earlier than 5 seconds before the end of each mode.2.7.5. Engine Conditions The engine speed and load, intake air temperature and depression, exhaust temperature and backpressure, fuel flow and air or exhaust flow, charge air temperature, fuel temperature and humidity shall be recorded during each mode, with the speed and load requirements (see section 2.7.2) being met during the time of particulate sampling, but in any case during the last minute of each mode. Any additional data required for calculation shall be recorded (see sections 4 and 5).2.7.6. NOx Check within the Control Area The NOx check within the control area shall be performed immediately upon completion of mode 13. The engine shall be conditioned at mode 13 for a period of three minutes before the start of the measurements. Three measurements shall be made at different locations within the control area, selected by the Technical Service [87]. The time for each measurement shall be 2 minutes.[87] The test points shall be selected using approved statistical methods of randomisation. The measurement procedure is identical to the NOx measurement on the 13-mode cycle, and shall be carried out in accordance with sections 2.7.3, 2.7.5, and 4.1 of this Appendix, and Annex III, Appendix 4, section 3. The calculation shall be carried out in accordance with section 4.2.7.7. Rechecking the Analysers After the emission test a zero gas and the same span gas shall be used for rechecking. The test will be considered acceptable if the difference between the pre-test and post-test results is less than 2% of the span gas value.3. ELR TEST RUN3.1. Installation of the Measuring Equipment The opacimeter and sample probes, if applicable, shall be installed after the exhaust silencer or any aftertreatment device, if fitted, according to the general installation procedures specified by the instrument manufacturer. Additionally, the requirements of section 10 of ISO IDS 11614 shall be observed, where appropriate. Prior to any zero and full scale checks, the opacimeter shall be warmed up and stabilised according to the instrument manufacturer's recommendations.
Prior to any zero and full scale checks, the opacimeter shall be warmed up and stabilised according to the instrument manufacturer's recommendations. If the opacimeter is equipped with a purge air system to prevent sooting of the meter optics, this system shall also be activated and adjusted according to the manufacturer's recommendations.3.2. Checking of the Opacimeter The zero and full scale checks shall be made in the opacity readout mode, since the opacity scale offers two truly definable calibration points, namely 0% opacity and 100 % opacity. The light absorption coefficient is then correctly calculated based upon the measured opacity and the LA, as submitted by the opacimeter manufacturer, when the instrument is returned to the k readout mode for testing. With no blockage of the opacimeter light beam, the readout shall be adjusted to 0,0% ± 1,0 % opacity. With the light being prevented from reaching the receiver, the readout shall be adjusted to 100,0% ± 1,0% opacity.3.3. Test Cycle3.3.1. Conditioning of the Engine Warming up of the engine and the system shall be at maximum power in order to stabilise the engine parameters according to the recommendation of the manufacturer. The preconditioning phase should also protect the actual measurement against the influence of deposits in the exhaust system from a former test. When the engine is stabilised, the cycle shall be started within 20 ± 2 s after the preconditioning phase. At the manufacturers request, a dummy test may be run for additional conditioning before the measurement cycle.3.3.2. Test Sequence The test consists of a sequence of three load steps at each of the three engine speeds A (cycle 1), B (cycle 2) and C (cycle 3) determined in accordance with Annex III, section 1.1, followed by cycle 4 at a speed within the control area and a load between 10% and 100%, selected by the Technical Service [88]. The following sequence shall be followed in dynamometer operation on the test engine, as shown in Figure 3.[88] The test points shall be selected using approved statistical methods of randomisation.Figure 3Sequence of ELR Test>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>(a) The engine shall be operated at engine speed A and 10 per cent load for 20 ± 2 s. The specified speed shall be held to within ± 20 rpm and the specified torque shall be held to within ± 2% of the maximum torque at the test speed.(b) At the end of the previous segment, the speed control lever shall be moved rapidly to, and held in, the wide open position for 10 ± 1 s. The necessary dynamometer load shall be applied to keep the engine speed within ± 150 rpm during the first 3 s, and within ± 20 rpm during the rest of the segment.(c) The sequence described in (a) and (b) shall be repeated two times.(d) Upon completion of the third load step, the engine shall be adjusted to engine speed B and 10 per cent load within 20 ± 2 s.(e) The sequence (a) to (c) shall be run with the engine operating at engine speed B.(f) Upon completion of the third load step, the engine shall be adjusted to engine speed C and 10 per cent load within 20 ± 2 s.(g) The sequence (a) to (c) shall be run with the engine operating at engine speed C.(h) Upon completion of the third load step, the engine shall be adjusted to the selected engine speed and any load above 10 per cent within 20 ± 2 s.(i) The sequence (a) to (c) shall be run with the engine operating at the selected engine speed.3.4. Cycle Validation The relative standard deviations of the mean smoke values at each test speed (SVA, SVB, SVC, as calculated in accordance with section 6.3.3 of this Appendix from the three successive load steps at each test speed) shall be lower than 15 % of the mean value, or 10 % of the limit value shown in Table 1 of Annex I, whichever is greater. If the difference is greater, the sequence shall be repeated until 3 successive load steps meet the validation criteria.3.5. Rechecking of the Opacimeter The post-test opacimeter zero drift value shall not exceed ± 5,0% of the limit value shown in Table 1 of Annex I.4. CALCULATION OF THE GASEOUS EMISSIONS4.1. Data Evaluation For the evaluation of the gaseous emissions, the chart reading of the last 30 seconds of each mode shall be averaged, and the average concentrations (conc) of HC, CO and NOx during each mode shall be determined from the average chart readings and the corresponding calibration data. A different type of recording can be used if it ensures an equivalent data acquisition. For the NOx check within the control area, the above requirements apply for NOx, only. The exhaust gas flow GEXHW or the diluted exhaust gas flow GTOTW, if used optionally, shall be determined in accordance with Annex III, Appendix 4, section 2.3.4.2. Dry/wet correction The measured concentration shall be converted to a wet basis according to the following formulae, if not already measured on a wet basis.conc (wet) = Kw K conc (dry) For the raw exhaust gas:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> and,>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> For the diluted exhaust gas:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> or,>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>TABLE POSITION> where:>TABLE POSITION>4.3. NOx Correction for Humidity and Temperature As the NOx emission depends on ambient air conditions, the NOx concentration shall be corrected for ambient air temperature and humidity with the factors given in the following formulae:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> with:>TABLE POSITION> in which.>TABLE POSITION>4.4. Calculation of the Emission Mass Flow Rates The emission mass flow rates (g/h) for each mode shall be calculated as follows, assuming the exhaust gas density to be 1,293 kg/m3 at 273 K (0 °C) and 101,3 kPa: (1) NOx mass = 0,001587 N NOx conc KH,D GEXHW (2) COx mass = 0,000966 C COconc GEXHW (3) HCmass = 0,000479 H HCconc GEXHW where NOx conc, COconc, HCconc [89] are the average concentrations (ppm) in the raw exhaust gas, as determined in section 4.1.[89] Based on C1 equivalent.
The exhaust gas flow GEXHW or the diluted exhaust gas flow GTOTW, if used optionally, shall be determined in accordance with Annex III, Appendix 4, section 2.3.4.2. Dry/wet correction The measured concentration shall be converted to a wet basis according to the following formulae, if not already measured on a wet basis.conc (wet) = Kw K conc (dry) For the raw exhaust gas:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> and,>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> For the diluted exhaust gas:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> or,>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>TABLE POSITION> where:>TABLE POSITION>4.3. NOx Correction for Humidity and Temperature As the NOx emission depends on ambient air conditions, the NOx concentration shall be corrected for ambient air temperature and humidity with the factors given in the following formulae:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> with:>TABLE POSITION> in which.>TABLE POSITION>4.4. Calculation of the Emission Mass Flow Rates The emission mass flow rates (g/h) for each mode shall be calculated as follows, assuming the exhaust gas density to be 1,293 kg/m3 at 273 K (0 °C) and 101,3 kPa: (1) NOx mass = 0,001587 N NOx conc KH,D GEXHW (2) COx mass = 0,000966 C COconc GEXHW (3) HCmass = 0,000479 H HCconc GEXHW where NOx conc, COconc, HCconc [89] are the average concentrations (ppm) in the raw exhaust gas, as determined in section 4.1.[89] Based on C1 equivalent. If, optionally, the gaseous emissions are determined with a full flow dilution system, the following formulae shall be applied: (1) NOx mass = 0,001587 N NOx conc KH,D GTOTW (2) COx mass = 0,000966 C COconc GTOTW (3) HCmass = 0,000479 H HCconc GTOTW where NOx conc, COconc, HCconc [90] are the average background corrected concentrations (ppm) of each mode in the diluted exhaust gas, as determined in Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.3.1.1.[90] Based on C1 equivalent.4.5. Calculation of the Specific Emissions The emissions (g/kWh) shall be calculated for all individual components in the following way:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> The weighting factors (WF) used in the above calculation are according to section 2.7.1.4.6. Calculation of the Area Control Values For the three control points selected according to section 2.7.6, the NOx emission shall be measured and calculated according to section 4.6.1 and also determined by interpolation from the modes of the test cycle closest to the respective control point according to section 4.6.2. The measured values are then compared to the interpolated values according to section 4.6.3.4.6.1. Calculation of the Specific Emission The NOx emission for each of the control points (Z) shall be calculated as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>4.6.2. Determination of the Emission Value from the Test Cycle The NOx emission for each of the control points shall be interpolated from the four closest modes of the test cycle that envelop the selected control point Z as shown in Figure 4. For these modes (R, S, T, U), the following definitions apply:>TABLE POSITION> The NOx emission of the selected control point Z shall be calculated as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> and:>TABLE POSITION> where,>TABLE POSITION>Figure 4Interpolation of NOx Control Point>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>4.6.3. Comparison of NOx Emission Values The measured specific NOx emission of the control point Z (NOx,Z) is compared to the interpolated value (EZ) as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>5. CALCULATION OF THE PARTICULATE EMISSION5.1. Data Evaluation For the evaluation of the particulates, the total sample masses (MSAM,i) through the filters shall be recorded for each mode. The filters shall be returned to the weighing chamber and conditioned for at least one hour, but not more than 80 hours, and then weighed. The gross weight of the filters shall be recorded and the tare weight (see section 1 of this Appendix) subtracted. The particulate mass Mf is the sum of the particulate masses collected on the primary and back-up filters. If background correction is to be applied, the dilution air mass (MDIL) through the filters and the particulate mass (Md) shall be recorded. If more than one measurement was made, the quotient Md/MDIL must be calculated for each single measurement and the values averaged.5.2. Partial Flow Dilution System The final reported test results of the particulate emission shall be determined through the following steps. Since various types of dilution rate control may be used, different calculation methods for GEDFW apply. All calculations shall be based upon the average values of the individual modes during the sampling period.5.2.1. Isokinetic Systems>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where r corresponds to the ratio of the cross sectional areas of the isokinetic probe and the exhaust pipe:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>5.2.2. Systems with Measurement of CO2 or NOx Concentration>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION> Concentrations measured on a dry basis shall be converted to a wet basis according to section 4.2 of this Appendix.5.2.3. Systems with CO2 Measurement and Carbon Balance Method [91][91] The value is only valid for the reference fuel specified in Annex I.>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION> (concentrations in vol % on wet basis) This equation is based upon the carbon balance assumption (carbon atoms supplied to the engine are emitted as CO2) and determined through the following steps:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> and>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>5.2.4. Systems with Flow Measurement>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>5.3. Full Flow Dilution System The reported test results of the particulate emission shall be determined through the following steps. All calculations shall be based upon the average values of the individual modes during the sampling period.>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>5.4. Calculation of the Particulate Mass Flow Rate The particulate mass flow rate shall be calculated as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where>TABLE POSITION> determined over the test cycle by summation of the average values of the individual modes during the sampling period. The particulate mass flow rate may be background corrected as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> If more than one measurement is made, >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> shall be replaced with >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>.>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> for the individual modes or, >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> for the individual modes.5.5. Calculation of the Specific Emission The particulate emission shall be calculated in the following way:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>5.6. Effective Weighting Factor The effective weighting factor >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> for each mode shall be calculated in the following way:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> The value of the effective weighting factors shall be within ± 0,003 (± 0,005 for the idle mode) of the weighting factors listed in section 2.7.1.6. CALCULATION OF THE SMOKE VALUES6.1. Bessel Algorithm The Bessel algorithm shall be used to compute the 1 s average values from the instantaneous smoke readings, converted in accordance with section 6.3.1. The algorithm emulates a low pass second order filter, and its use requires iterative calculations to determine the coefficients. These coefficients are a function of the response time of the opacimeter system and the sampling rate. Therefore, section 6.1.1 must be repeated whenever the system response time and/or sampling rate changes.6.1.1. Calculation of Filter Response Time and Bessel Constants The required Bessel response time (tF) is a function of the physical and electrical response times of the opacimeter system, as specified in Annex III, Appendix 4, section 5.2.4, and shall be calculated by the following equation:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION> The calculations for estimating the filter cut-off frequency (fc) are based on a step input 0 to 1 in 0,01 s (see Annex VII).
Therefore, section 6.1.1 must be repeated whenever the system response time and/or sampling rate changes.6.1.1. Calculation of Filter Response Time and Bessel Constants The required Bessel response time (tF) is a function of the physical and electrical response times of the opacimeter system, as specified in Annex III, Appendix 4, section 5.2.4, and shall be calculated by the following equation:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION> The calculations for estimating the filter cut-off frequency (fc) are based on a step input 0 to 1 in 0,01 s (see Annex VII). The response time is defined as the time between when the Bessel output reaches 10% (t10) and when it reaches 90% (t90) of this step function. This must be obtained by iterating on fc until t90-t10htF. The first iteration for fc is given by the following formula:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> The Bessel constants E and K shall be calculated by the following equations:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION>6.1.2. Calculation of the Bessel Algorithm Using the values of E and K, the 1 s Bessel averaged response to a step input Si shall be calculated as follows:Yi = Yi 2 1 + E Y (Si + 2 Si 2 1 + Si 2 2 2 4 Yi 2 2) + K (Yi 2 1 2 Yi 2 2) where:>TABLE POSITION> The times t10 and t90 shall be interpolated. The difference in time between t90 and t10 defines the response time tF for that value of fc. If this response time is not close enough to the required response time, iteration shall be continued until the actual response time is within 1 % of the required response as follows:((t90 2 t10) 2 tF) 0,01 ( tF6.2. Data Evaluation The smoke measurement values shall be sampled with a minimum rate of 20 Hz.6.3. Determination of Smoke6.3.1. Data Conversion Since the basic measurement unit of all opacimeters is transmittance, the smoke values shall be converted from transmittance (ô) to the light absorption coefficient (k) as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> andN = 100 2 ô where:>TABLE POSITION> The conversion shall be applied, before any further data processing is made.6.3.2. Calculation of Bessel Averaged Smoke The proper cut-off frequency fc is the one that produces the required filter response time tF. Once this frequency has been determined through the iterative process of section 6.1.1, the proper Bessel algorithm constants E and K shall be calculated. The Bessel algorithm shall then be applied to the instantaneous smoke trace (k-value), as described in section 6.1.2:Yi = Yi 2 1 + E i (Si + 2 Si 2 1 + Si 2 2 2 4 Yi 2 2) + K (Yi 2 1 2 Yi 2 2) The Bessel algorithm is recursive in nature. Thus, it needs some initial input values of Si-1 and Si-2 and initial output values Yi-1 and Yi-2 to get the algorithm started. These may be assumed to be 0. For each load step of the three speeds A, B and C, the maximum 1s value Ymax shall be selected from the individual Yi values of each smoke trace.6.3.3. Final Result The mean smoke values (SV) from each cycle (test speed) shall be calculated as follows: >TABLE POSITION> where:>TABLE POSITION> The final value shall be calculated as follows:SV = (0,43 S SVA) + (0,56 SVB) + (0,01 SVC)Appendix 2ETC TEST CYCLE1. ENGINE MAPPING PROCEDURE1.1. Determination of the Mapping Speed Range For generating the ETC on the test cell, the engine needs to be mapped prior to the test cycle for determining the speed vs. torque curve. The minimum and maximum mapping speeds are defined as follows:>TABLE POSITION>1.2. Performing the Engine Power Map The engine shall be warmed up at maximum power in order to stabilise the engine parameters according to the recommendation of the manufacturer and good engineering practice. When the engine is stabilised, the engine map shall be performed as follows:(a) the engine shall be unloaded and operated at idle speed;(b) the engine shall be operated at full load setting of the injection pump at minimum mapping speed;(c) the engine speed shall be increased at an average rate of 8 ± 1 min21 /s from minimum to maximum mapping speed. Engine speed and torque points shall be recorded at a sample rate of a least one point per second.1.3. Mapping Curve Generation All data points recorded under section 1.2 shall be connected using linear interpolation between points. The resulting torque curve is the mapping curve and shall be used to convert the normalised torque values of the engine cycle into actual torque values for the test cycle, as described in section 2.1.4. Alternate Mapping If a manufacturer believes that the above mapping techniques are unsafe or unrepresentative for any given engine, alternate mapping techniques may be used. These alternate techniques must satisfy the intent of the specified mapping procedures to determine the maximum available torque at all engine speeds achieved during the test cycles. Deviations from the mapping techniques specified in this section for reasons of safety or representativeness shall be approved by the Technical Service along with the justification for their use. In no case, however, shall descending continual sweeps of engine speed be used for governed or turbocharged engines.1.5. Replicate Tests An engine need not be mapped before each and every test cycle. An engine shall be remapped prior to a test cycle if:- an unreasonable amount of time has transpired since the last map, as determined by engineering judgement, or- physical changes or recalibrations have been made to the engine which may potentially affect engine performance.2. GENERATION OF THE REFERENCE TEST CYCLE The transient test cycle is described in Appendix 3 to this Annex. The normalised values for torque and speed shall be changed to the actual values, as follows, resulting in the reference cycle.2.1. Actual Speed The speed shall be unnormalised using the following equation:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> The reference speed (nref) corresponds to the 100 % speed values specified in the engine dynamometer schedule of Appendix 3. It is defined as follows (see Figure 1 of Annex I):nref = nlo + 95 % n (nhi 2 nlo) where nhi and nlo are either specified according to Annex I, section 2 or determined according to Annex III, Appendix 1, section 1.1.2.2. Actual torque The torque is normalised to the maximum torque at the respective speed. The torque values of the reference cycle shall be unnormalised, using the mapping curve determined according to section 1.3, as follows:Actual torque = (% torque A max. torque/100) for the respective actual speed as determined in section 2.1. The negative torque values of the motoring points («m») shall take on, for purposes of reference cycle generation, unnormalised values determined in either of the following ways:- negative 40% of the positive torque available at the associated speed point,- mapping of the negative torque required to motor the engine from minimum to maximum mapping speed,- determination of the negative torque required to motor the engine at idle and reference speeds and linear interpolation between these two points.2.3. Example of the Unnormalisation Procedure As an example, the following test point shall be unnormalised:>TABLE POSITION> Given the following values:>TABLE POSITION> results in,actual speed = (43 a (2 200 2 600)/100) + 600 = 1 288 min21actual torque = (82 a 700/100) = 574 Nm where the maximum torque observed from the mapping curve at 1 288 min21 is 700 Nm.3. EMISSIONS TEST RUN At the manufacturers request, a dummy test may be run for conditioning of the engine and exhaust system before the measurement cycle. NG and LPG fuelled engines shall be run-in using the ETC test.
NG and LPG fuelled engines shall be run-in using the ETC test. The engine shall be run over a minimum of two ETC cycles and until the CO emission measured over one ETC cycle does not exceed by more than 10 % the CO emission measured over the previous ETC cycle.3.1. Preparation of the Sampling Filters (Diesel Engines Only) At least one hour before the test, each filter (pair) shall be placed in a closed, but unsealed petri dish and placed in a weighing chamber for stabilisation. At the end of the stabilisation period, each filter (pair) shall be weighed and the tare weight shall be recorded. The filter (pair) shall then be stored in a closed petri dish or sealed filter holder until needed for testing. If the filter (pair) is not used within eight hours of its removal from the weighing chamber, it must be conditioned and reweighed before use.3.2. Installation of the Measuring Equipment The instrumentation and sample probes shall be installed as required. The tailpipe shall be connected to the full flow dilution system.3.3. Starting the Dilution System and the Engine The dilution system and the engine shall be started and warmed up until all temperatures and pressures have stabilised at maximum power according to the recommendation of the manufacturer and good engineering practice.3.4. Starting the Particulate Sampling System (Diesel Engines Only) The particulate sampling system shall be started and running on by-pass. The particulate background level of the dilution air may be determined by passing dilution air through the particulate filters. If filtered dilution air is used, one measurement may be done prior to or after the test. If the dilution air is not filtered, measurements at the beginning and at the end of the cycle, may be done, and the values averaged.3.5. Adjustment of the Full Flow Dilution System The total diluted exhaust gas flow shall be set to eliminate water condensation in the system, and to obtain a maximum filter face temperature of 325 K (52 °C) or less (see Annex V, section 2.3.1, DT).3.6. Checking the Analysers The emission analysers shall be set at zero and spanned. If sample bags are used, they shall be evacuated.3.7. Engine Starting Procedure The stabilised engine shall be started according to the manufacturer's recommended starting procedure in the owner's manual, using either a production starter motor or the dynamometer. Optionally, the test may start directly from the engine preconditioning phase without shutting the engine off, when the engine has reached the idle speed.3.8. Test Cycle3.8.1. Test Sequence The test sequence shall be started, if the engine has reached idle speed. The test shall be performed according to the reference cycle as set out in section 2 of this Appendix. Engine speed and torque command set points shall be issued at 5 Hz (10 Hz recommended) or greater. Feedback engine speed and torque shall be recorded at least once every second during the test cycle, and the signals may be electronically filtered.3.8.2. Analyser Response At the start of the engine or test sequence, if the cycle is started directly from the preconditioning, the measuring equipment shall be started, simultaneously:- start collecting or analysing dilution air;- start collecting or analysing diluted exhaust gas;- start measuring the amount of diluted exhaust gas (CVS) and the required temperatures and pressures;- start recording the feedback data of speed and torque of the dynamometer. HC and NOx shall be measured continuously in the dilution tunnel with a frequency of 2 Hz. The average concentrations shall be determined by integrating the analyser signals over the test cycle. The system response time shall be no greater than 20 s, and shall be coordinated with CVS flow fluctuations and sampling time/test cycle offsets, if necessary. CO, CO2, NMHC and CH4 shall be determined by integration or by analysing the concentrations in the sample bag, collected over the cycle. The concentrations of the gaseous pollutants in the dilution air shall be determined by integration or by collecting into the background bag. All other values shall be recorded with a minimum of one measurement per second (1 Hz).3.8.3. Particulate Sampling (Diesel Engines Only) At the start of the engine or test sequence, if the cycle is started directly from the preconditioning, the particulate sampling system shall be switched from by-pass to collecting particulates. If no flow compensation is used, the sample pump(s) shall be adjusted so that the flow rate through the particulate sample probe or transfer tube is maintained at a value within ± 5% of the set flow rate. If flow compensation (i.e. proportional control of sample flow) is used, it must be demonstrated that the ratio of main tunnel flow to particulate sample flow does not change by more than ± 5% of its set value (except for the first 10 seconds of sampling). Note: For double dilution operation, sample flow is the net difference between the flow rate through the sample filters and the secondary dilution air flow rate. The average temperature and pressure at the gas meter(s) or flow instrumentation inlet shall be recorded. If the set flow rate cannot be maintained over the complete cycle (within ± 5%) because of high particulate loading on the filter, the test shall be voided. The test shall be rerun using a lower flow rate and/or a larger diameter filter.3.8.4. Engine Stalling If the engine stalls anywhere during the test cycle, the engine shall be preconditioned and restarted, and the test repeated. If a malfunction occurs in any of the required test equipment during the test cycle, the test shall be voided.3.8.5. Operations After Test At the completion of the test, the measurement of the diluted exhaust gas volume, the gas flow into the collecting bags and the particulate sample pump shall be stopped. For an integrating analyser system, sampling shall continue until system response times have elapsed. The concentrations of the collecting bags, if used, shall be analysed as soon as possible and in any case not later than 20 minutes after the end of the test cycle. After the emission test, a zero gas and the same span gas shall be used for re-checking the analysers. The test will be considered acceptable if the difference between the pre-test and post-test results is less than 2% of the span gas value. For diesel engines only, the particulate filters shall be returned to the weighing chamber no later than one hour after completion of the test and shall be conditioned in a closed, but unsealed petri dish for at least one hour, but not more than 80 hours before weighing.3.9. Verification of the Test Run3.9.1. Data Shift To minimise the biasing effect of the time lag between the feedback and reference cycle values, the entire engine speed and torque feedback signal sequence may be advanced or delayed in time with respect to the reference speed and torque sequence. If the feedback signals are shifted, both speed and torque must be shifted the same amount in the same direction.3.9.2. Calculation of the Cycle Work The actual cycle work Wact (kWh) shall be calculated using each pair of engine feedback speed and torque values recorded. This shall be done after any feedback data shift has occurred, if this option is selected. The actual cycle work Wact is used for comparison to the reference cycle work Wref and for calculating the brake specific emissions (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). The same methodology shall be used for integrating both reference and actual engine power. If values are to be determined between adjacent reference or adjacent measured values, linear interpolation shall be used. In integrating the reference and actual cycle work, all negative torque values shall be set equal to zero and included.
In integrating the reference and actual cycle work, all negative torque values shall be set equal to zero and included. If integration is performed at a frequency of less than 5 Hertz, and if, during a given time segment, the torque value changes from positive to negative or negative to positive, the negative portion shall be computed and set equal to zero. The positive portion shall be included in the integrated value. Wact shall be between 2 15% and + 5% of Wref3.9.3. Validation Statistics of the Test Cycle Linear regressions of the feedback values on the reference values shall be performed for speed, torque and power. This shall be done after any feedback data shift has occurred, if this option is selected. The method of least squares shall be used, with the best fit equation having the form:y = mx + b where:>TABLE POSITION> The standard error of estimate (SE) of y on x and the coefficient of determination (r2) shall be calculated for each regression line. It is recommended that this analysis be performed at 1 Hertz. All negative reference torque values and the associated feedback values shall be deleted from the calculation of cycle torque and power validation statistics. For a test to be considered valid, the criteria of table 6 must be met. 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 8Table 6Regression line tolerances>TABLE POSITION> 1999/96/EC Art. 1.3 and Annex 1 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 9 Point deletions from the regression analyses are permitted where noted in Table 7.Table 7Permitted Point Deletions From Regression Analysis>TABLE POSITION>4. CALCULATION OF THE GASEOUS EMISSIONS4.1. Determination of the Diluted Exhaust Gas Flow The total diluted exhaust gas flow over the cycle (kg/test) shall be calculated from the measurement values over the cycle and the corresponding calibration data of the flow measurement device (V0 for PDP or KV for CFV, as determined in Annex III, Appendix 5, section 2). The following formulae shall be applied, if the temperature of the diluted exhaust is kept constant over the cycle by using a heat exchanger (± 6 K for a PDP-CVS, ± 11 K for a CFV-CVS, see Annex V, section 2.3). For the PDP-CVS system:MTOTW = 1,293 M V0 Np (pB 2 p1) 273 / (101,3 T) where:>TABLE POSITION> For the CFV-CVS system:MTOTW = 1,293 M t Kv pA / T0,5 where:>TABLE POSITION> If a system with flow compensation is used (i.e. without heat exchanger), the instantaneous mass emissions shall be calculated and integrated over the cycle. In this case, the instantaneous mass of the diluted exhaust gas shall be calculated as follows. For the PDP-CVS system:MTOTW,i = 1,293 M V0 Np,i (pB 2 p1) 273 / (101,3 T) where:>TABLE POSITION> For the CFV-CVS system:MTOTW,i = 1,293 M Äti Kv pA / T0,5 where:>TABLE POSITION> If the total sample mass of particulates (MSAM) and gaseous pollutants exceeds 0,5 % of the total CVS flow (MTOTW), the CVS flow shall be corrected for MSAM or the particulate sample flow shall be returned to the CVS prior to the flow measuring device (PDP or CFV).4.2. NOx Correction for Humidity As the NOx emission depends on ambient air conditions, the NOx concentration shall be corrected for ambient air humidity with the factors given in the following formulae.(a) for diesel engines:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>(b) for gas engines:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION> in which:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>TABLE POSITION>4.3. Calculation of the Emission Mass Flow4.3.1. Systems with Constant Mass Flow For systems with heat exchanger, the mass of the pollutants (g/test) shall be determined from the following equations:(1) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (diesel engines)(2) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (gas engines)(3) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>(4) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (diesel engines)(5) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (LPG fuelled engines)(6) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (NG fuelled engines)(7) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (NG fuelled engines) where:>TABLE POSITION>>TABLE POSITION> Concentrations measured on a dry basis shall be converted to a wet basis in accordance with Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.2. The determination of NMHCconc depends on the method used (see Annex III, Appendix 4, section 3.3.4). In both cases, the CH4 concentration shall be determined and subtracted from the HC concentration as follows:(a) GC method >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>(b) NMC method >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION>4.3.1.1. Determination of the Background Corrected Concentrations The average background concentration of the gaseous pollutants in the dilution air shall be subtracted from measured concentrations to get the net concentrations of the pollutants. The average values of the background concentrations can be determined by the sample bag method or by continuous measurement with integration. The following formula shall be used.>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION> The dilution factor shall be calculated as follows:(a) for diesel and LPG fuelled gas engines >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>(b) for NG-fuelled gas engines >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION> Concentrations measured on dry basis shall be converted to a wet basis in accordance with Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.2. The stoichiometric factor shall be calculated as follows:FS = 100 * (÷/÷ + (y/2) + 3,76 * (÷ + (y/4))) where:>TABLE POSITION> Alternatively, if the fuel composition is not known, the following stoichiometric factors may be used:>TABLE POSITION>4.3.2. Systems with Flow Compensation For systems without heat exchanger, the mass of the pollutants (g/test) shall be determined by calculating the instantaneous mass emissions and integrating the instantaneous values over the cycle. Also, the background correction shall be applied directly to the instantaneous concentration value. The following formulae shall be applied:(1) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (diesel engines)(2) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (gas engines)(3)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>(4) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (diesel engines)(5) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (LPG engines)(6) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (NG engines)(7) >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (NG engines) where:>TABLE POSITION>4.4. Calculation of the Specific Emissions The emissions (g/kWh) shall be calculated for all individual components in the following way:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (diesel and gas engines)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (diesel and gas engines)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (diesel and LPG fuelled gas engines)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (NG fuelled gas engines)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> (NG fuelled gas engines) where:>TABLE POSITION>5. CALCULATION OF THE PARTICULATE EMISSION (DIESEL ENGINES ONLY)5.1. Calculation of the Mass Flow The particulate mass (g/test) shall be calculated as follows:PTmass = (Mf/MSAM) * (MTOTW/1 000) where:>TABLE POSITION> and:>TABLE POSITION> If a double dilution system is used, the mass of the secondary dilution air shall be subtracted from the total mass of the double diluted exhaust gas sampled through the particulate filtersMSAM = MTOT 2 MSEC where:>TABLE POSITION> If the particulate background level of the dilution air is determined in accordance with section 3.4, the particulate mass may be background corrected. In this case, the particulate mass (g/test) shall be calculated as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>TABLE POSITION>>TABLE POSITION>5.2. CALCULATION OF THE SPECIFIC EMISSION The particulate emission (g/kWh) shall be calculated in the following way:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION>Appendix 3ETC ENGINE DYNAMOMETER SCHEDULE>TABLE POSITION>A graphical display of the ETC dynamometer schedule is shown in Figure 5.Figure 5ETC dynamometer schedule>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>Appendix 4MEASUREMENT AND SAMPLING PROCEDURES1.
In this case, the particulate mass (g/test) shall be calculated as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>TABLE POSITION>>TABLE POSITION>5.2. CALCULATION OF THE SPECIFIC EMISSION The particulate emission (g/kWh) shall be calculated in the following way:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION>Appendix 3ETC ENGINE DYNAMOMETER SCHEDULE>TABLE POSITION>A graphical display of the ETC dynamometer schedule is shown in Figure 5.Figure 5ETC dynamometer schedule>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>Appendix 4MEASUREMENT AND SAMPLING PROCEDURES1. INTRODUCTION Gaseous components, particulates, and smoke emitted by the engine submitted for testing shall be measured by the methods described in Annex V. The respective sections of Annex V describe the recommended analytical systems for the gaseous emissions (section 1), the recommended particulate dilution and sampling systems (section 2), and the recommended opacimeters for smoke measurement (section 3). For the ESC, the gaseous components shall be determined in the raw exhaust gas. Optionally, they may be determined in the diluted exhaust gas, if a full flow dilution system is used for particulate determination. Particulates shall be determined with either a partial flow or a full flow dilution system. For the ETC, only a full flow dilution system shall be used for determining gaseous and particulate emissions, and is considered the reference system. However, partial flow dilution systems may be approved by the Technical Service, if their equivalency according to section 6.2 to Annex I is proven, and if a detailed description of the data evaluation and calculation procedures is submitted to the Technical Service.2. DYNAMOMETER AND TEST CELL EQUIPMENT The following equipment shall be used for emission tests of engines on engine dynamometers.2.1. Engine dynamometer An engine dynamometer shall be used with adequate characteristics to perform the test cycles described in Appendices 1 and 2 to this Annex. The speed measuring system shall have an accuracy of ± 2% of reading. The torque measuring system shall have an accuracy of ± 3% of reading in the range > 20% of full scale, and an accuracy of ± 0,6% of full scale in the range 20% of full scale.2.2. Other instruments Measuring instruments for fuel consumption, air consumption, temperature of coolant and lubricant, exhaust gas pressure and intake manifold depression, exhaust gas temperature, air intake temperature, atmospheric pressure, humidity and fuel temperature shall be used, as required. These instruments shall satisfy the requirements given in table 8:Table 8Accuracy of Measuring Instruments>TABLE POSITION>2.3. Exhaust Gas Flow For calculation of the emissions in the raw exhaust, it is necessary to know the exhaust gas flow (see section 4.4 of Appendix 1). For the determination of the exhaust flow either of the following methods may be used:a) Direct measurement of the exhaust flow by flow nozzle or equivalent metering system;b) Measurement of the air flow and the fuel flow by suitable metering systems and calculation of the exhaust flow by the following equation:GEXH W = GAIR W + GFUEL (for wet exhaust mass) The accuracy of exhaust flow determination shall be ± 2,5 % of reading or better.2.4. Diluted exhaust gas flow For calculation of the emissions in the diluted exhaust using a full flow dilution system (mandatory for the ETC), it is necessary to know the diluted exhaust gas flow (see section 4.3 of Appendix 2). The total mass flow rate of the diluted exhaust (GTOTW) or the total mass of the diluted exhaust gas over the cycle (MTOTW) shall be measured with a PDP or CFV (Annex V, section 2.3.1). The accuracy shall be ± 2% of reading or better, and shall be determined according to the provisions of Annex III, Appendix 5, section 2.4.3. DETERMINATION OF THE GASEOUS COMPONENTS3.1. General analyser specifications The analysers shall have a measuring range appropriate for the accuracy required to measure the concentrations of the exhaust gas components (section 3.1.1). It is recommended that the analysers be operated such that the measured concentration falls between 15% and 100% of full scale. If read-out systems (computers, data loggers) can provide sufficient accuracy and resolution below 15% of full scale, measurements below 15% of full scale are also acceptable. In this case, additional calibrations of at least 4 non-zero nominally equally spaced points are to be made to ensure the accuracy of the calibration curves according to Annex III, Appendix 5, section 1.5.5.2. The electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) of the equipment shall be on a level as to minimise additional errors.3.1.1. Measurement Error The total measurement error, including the cross sensitivity to other gases (see Annex III, Appendix 5, section 1.9), shall not exceed ± 5% of the reading or ± 3,5% of full scale, whichever is smaller. For concentrations of less than 100 ppm the measurement error shall not exceed ± 4 ppm.3.1.2. Repeatability The repeatability, defined as 2,5 times the standard deviation of 10 repetitive responses to a given calibration or span gas, has to be not greater than ± 1% of full scale concentration for each range used above 155 ppm (or ppmC) or ± 2% of each range used below 155 ppm (or ppmC).3.1.3. Noise The analyser peak-to-peak response to zero and calibration or span gases over any 10 second period shall not exceed 2% of full scale on all ranges used.3.1.4 Zero Drift The zero drift during a one hour period shall be less than 2% of full scale on the lowest range used. The zero response is defined as the mean response, including noise, to a zero gas during a 30 seconds time interval.3.1.5. Span Drift The span drift during a one hour period shall be less than 2% of full scale on the lowest range used. Span is defined as the difference between the span response and the zero response. The span response is defined as the mean response, including noise, to a span gas during a 30 seconds time interval.3.2. Gas Drying The optional gas drying device must have a minimal effect on the concentration of the measured gases. Chemical dryers are not an acceptable method of removing water from the sample.3.3. Analysers Sections 3.3.1 to 3.3.4 describe the measurement principles to be used. A detailed description of the measurement systems is given in Annex V. The gases to be measured shall be analysed with the following instruments. For non-linear analysers, the use of linearising circuits is permitted.3.3.1. Carbon Monoxide (CO) Analysis The carbon monoxide analyser shall be of the Non-Dispersive InfraRed (NDIR) absorption type.3.3.2. Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Analysis The carbon dioxide analyser shall be of the Non-Dispersive InfraRed (NDIR) absorption type.3.3.3. Hydrocarbon (HC) analysis For diesel and LPG fuelled gas engines, the hydrocarbon analyser shall be of the Heated Flame Ionisation Detector (HFID) type with detector, valves, pipework, etc. heated so as to maintain a gas temperature of 463K ± 10K (190 ± 10 °C).
heated so as to maintain a gas temperature of 463K ± 10K (190 ± 10 °C). For NG fuelled gas engines, the hydrocarbon analyser may be of the non heated Flame Ionisation Detector (FID) type depending upon the method used (see Annex V, section 1.3).3.3.4. Non-Methane Hydrocarbon (NMHC) Analysis (NG Fuelled Gas Engines Only) Non-methane hydrocarbons shall be determined by either of the following methods:3.3.4.1. Gas Chromatographic (GC) Method Non-methane hydrocarbons shall be determined by subtraction of the methane analysed with a Gas Chromatograph (GC) conditioned at 423 K (150 °C) from the hydrocarbons measured according to section 3.3.3.3.3.4.2. Non-Methane Cutter (NMC) Method The determination of the non-methane fraction shall be performed with a heated NMC operated in line with an FID as per section 3.3.3 by subtraction of the methane from the hydrocarbons.3.3.5. Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) Analysis The oxides of nitrogen analyser shall be of the ChemiLuminescent Detector (CLD) or Heated ChemiLuminescent Detector (HCLD) type with a NO2/NO converter, if measured on a dry basis. If measured on a wet basis, a HCLD with converter maintained above 328 K (55 °C) shall be used, provided the water quench check (see Annex III, Appendix 5, section 1.9.2.2) is satisfied.3.4. Sampling of Gaseous Emissions3.4.1. Raw Exhaust Gas (ESC only) The gaseous emissions sampling probes must be fitted at least 0,5 m or 3 times the diameter of the exhaust pipe whichever is the larger-upstream of the exit of the exhaust gas system as far as applicable and sufficiently close to the engine as to ensure an exhaust gas temperature of at least 343 K (70 °C) at the probe. In the case of a multi-cylinder engine with a branched exhaust manifold, the inlet of the probe shall be located sufficiently far downstream so as to ensure that the sample is representative of the average exhaust emissions from all cylinders. In multi-cylinder engines having distinct groups of manifolds, such as in a "Vee" engine configuration, it is permissible to acquire a sample from each group individually and calculate an average exhaust emission. Other methods which have been shown to correlate with the above methods may be used. For exhaust emission calculation the total exhaust mass flow must be used. If the engine is equipped with an exhaust aftertreatment system, the exhaust sample shall be taken downstream of the exhaust aftertreatment system.3.4.2. Diluted Exhaust Gas (mandatory for ETC, optional for ESC) The exhaust pipe between the engine and the full flow dilution system shall conform to the requirements of Annex V, section 2.3.1, EP. The gaseous emissions sample probe(s) shall be installed in the dilution tunnel at a point where the dilution air and exhaust gas are well mixed, and in close proximity to the particulates sampling probe. For the ETC, sampling can generally be done in two ways:- the pollutants are sampled into a sampling bag over the cycle and measured after completion of the test;- the pollutants are sampled continuously and integrated over the cycle; this method is mandatory for HC and NOx.4. DETERMINATION OF THE PARTICULATES The determination of the particulates requires a dilution system. Dilution may be accomplished by a partial flow dilution system (ESC only) or a full flow dilution system (mandatory for ETC). The flow capacity of the dilution system shall be large enough to completely eliminate water condensation in the dilution and sampling systems, and maintain the temperature of the diluted exhaust gas at or below 325K (52 °C) immediately upstream of the filter holders. Dehumidifying the dilution air before entering the dilution system is permitted, and especially useful if dilution air humidity is high. The temperature of the dilution air shall be 298 K ± 5 K (25 °C ± 5 °C). If the ambient temperature is below 293K (20 °C), dilution air pre-heating above the upper temperature limit of 303K (30 °C) is recommended. However, the dilution air temperature must not exceed 325 K (52 °C) prior to the introduction of the exhaust in the dilution tunnel. The partial flow dilution system has to be designed to split the exhaust stream into two fractions, the smaller one being diluted with air and subsequently used for particulate measurement. For this it is essential that the dilution ratio be determined very accurately. Different splitting methods can be applied, whereby the type of splitting used dictates to a significant degree the sampling hardware and procedures to be used (Annex V, section 2.2). The particulate sampling probe shall be installed in close proximity to the gaseous emissions sampling probe, and the installation shall comply with the provisions of section 3.4.1. To determine the mass of the particulates, a particulate sampling system, particulate sampling filters, a microgram balance, and a temperature and humidity controlled weighing chamber, are required. For particulate sampling, the single filter method shall be applied which uses one pair of filters (see section 4.1.3) for the whole test cycle. For the ESC, considerable attention must be paid to sampling times and flows during the sampling phase of the test.4.1. Particulate Sampling Filters4.1.1. Filter Specification Fluorocarbon coated glass fibre filters or fluorocarbon based membrane filters are required. All filter types shall have a 0,3 ìm DOP (di-octylphthalate) collection efficiency of at least 95% at a gas face velocity between 35 and 80 cm/s.4.1.2. Filter Size Particulate filters must have a minimum diameter of 47 mm (37 mm stain diameter). Larger diameter filters are acceptable (section 4.1.5).4.1.3. Primary and Back-up Filters The diluted exhaust shall be sampled by a pair of filters placed in series (one primary and one back-up filter) during the test sequence. The back-up filter shall be located no more than 100 mm downstream of, and shall not be in contact with the primary filter. The filters may be weighed separately or as a pair with the filters placed stain side to stain side.4.1.4. Filter Face Velocity A gas face velocity through the filter of 35 to 80 cm/s shall be achieved. The pressure drop increase between the beginning and the end of the test shall be no more than 25 kPa.4.1.5. Filter Loading The recommended minimum filter loading shall be 0,5 mg/1 075 mm2 stain area. For the most common filter sizes the values are shown in Table 9.Table 9Recommended Filter Loadings>TABLE POSITION>4.2. Weighing Chamber and Analytical Balance Specifications4.2.1. Weighing Chamber Conditions The temperature of the chamber (or room) in which the particulate filters are conditioned and weighed shall be maintained to within 295K ± 3 K (22 °C ± 3 °C) during all filter conditioning and weighing. The humidity shall be maintained to a dewpoint of 282,5K ± 3 K (9,5 °C ± 3 °C) and a relative humidity of 45% ± 8%.4.2.2. Reference Filter Weighing The chamber (or room) environment shall be free of any ambient contaminants (such as dust) that would settle on the particulate filters during their stabilisation. Disturbances to weighing room specifications as outlined in section 4.2.1 will be allowed if the duration of the disturbances does not exceed 30 minutes. The weighing room should meet the required specifications prior to personal entrance into the weighing room. At least two unused reference filters or reference filter pairs shall be weighed within 4 hours of, but preferably at the same time as the sample filter (pair) weighings. They shall be the same size and material as the sample filters. If the average weight of the reference filters (reference filter pairs) changes between sample filter weighings by more than ± 5% (± 7,5% for the filter pair respectively) of the recommended minimum filter loading (section 4.1.5.), then all sample filters shall be discarded and the emissions test repeated.
If the average weight of the reference filters (reference filter pairs) changes between sample filter weighings by more than ± 5% (± 7,5% for the filter pair respectively) of the recommended minimum filter loading (section 4.1.5.), then all sample filters shall be discarded and the emissions test repeated. If the weighing room stability criteria outlined in section 4.2.1 is not met, but the reference filter (pair) weighings meet the above criteria, the engine manufacturer has the option of accepting the sample filter weights or voiding the tests, fixing the weighing room control system and rerunning the test.4.2.3. Analytical Balance The analytical balance used to determine the weights of all filters shall have a precision (standard deviation) of 20 ìg and a resolution of 10 ìg (1 digit = 10 ìg). For filters less than 70 mm diameter, the precision and resolution shall be 2 ìg and 1 ìg, respectively.4.3. Additional Specifications for Particulate Measurement All parts of the dilution system and the sampling system from the exhaust pipe up to the filter holder, which are in contact with raw and diluted exhaust gas, must be designed to minimise deposition or alteration of the particulates. All parts must be made of electrically conductive materials that do not react with exhaust gas components, and must be electrically grounded to prevent electrostatic effects.5. DETERMINATION OF SMOKE This section provides specifications for the required and optional test equipment to be used for the ELR test. The smoke shall be measured with an opacimeter having an opacity and a light absorption coefficient readout mode. The opacity readout mode shall only be used for calibration and checking of the opacimeter. The smoke values of the test cycle shall be measured in the light absorption coefficient readout mode.5.1. General Requirements The ELR requires the use of a smoke measurement and data processing system which includes three functional units. These units may be integrated into a single component or provided as a system of interconnected components. The three functional units are:- an opacimeter meeting the specifications of Annex V, section 3,- a data processing unit capable of performing the functions described in Annex III, Appendix 1, section 6,- a printer and/or electronic storage medium to record and output the required smoke values specified in Annex III, Appendix 1, section 6.3.5.2. Specific Requirements5.2.1 Linearity The linearity shall be within ± 2% opacity.5.2.2. Zero Drift The zero drift during a one hour period shall not exceed ± 1% opacity.5.2.3. Opacimeter Display and Range For display in opacity, the range shall be 0-100% opacity, and the readability 0,1% opacity. For display in light absorption coefficient, the range shall be 0-30 m21 light absorption coefficient, and the readability 0,01 m21 light absorption coefficient.5.2.4. Instrument Response Time The physical response time of the opacimeter shall not exceed 0,2 s. The physical response time is the difference between the times when the output of a rapid response receiver reaches 10 and 90% of the full deviation when the opacity of the gas being measured is changed in less than 0,1 s. The electrical response time of the opacimeter shall not exceed 0,05 s. The electrical response time is the difference between the times when the opacimeter output reaches 10 and 90% of the full scale when the light source is interrupted or completely extinguished in less than 0,01 s.5.2.5. Neutral Density Filters Any neutral density filter used in conjunction with opacimeter calibration, linearity measurements, or setting span shall have its value known to within 1,0% opacity. The filter's nominal value must be checked for accuracy at least yearly using a reference traceable to a national or international standard. Neutral density filters are precision devices and can easily be damaged during use. Handling should be minimised and, when required, should be done with care to avoid scratching or soiling of the filter.Appendix 5CALIBRATION PROCEDURE1. CALIBRATION OF THE ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS1.1. Introduction Each analyser shall be calibrated as often as necessary to fulfil the accuracy requirements of this Directive. The calibration method that shall be used is described in this section for the analysers indicated in Annex III, Appendix 4, section 3 and Annex V, section 1.1.2. Calibration Gases The shelf life of all calibration gases must be respected. The expiration date of the calibration gases stated by the manufacturer shall be recorded.1.2.1. Pure Gases The required purity of the gases is defined by the contamination limits given below. The following gases must be available for operation: Purified nitrogen (Contamination 1 ppm C1, 1 ppm CO, 400 ppm CO2, 0,1 ppm NO) Purified oxygen (Purity > 99,5 % vol O2) Hydrogen-helium mixture (40 ± 2 % hydrogen, balance helium) (Contamination 1 ppm C1, 400 ppm CO2) Purified synthetic air (Contamination 1 ppm C1, 1 ppm CO, 400 ppm CO2, 0,1 ppm NO) (Oxygen content between 18-21 % vol.) Purified propane or CO for the CVS verification1.2.2. Calibration and Span Gases Mixtures of gases having the following chemical compositions shall be available: C3H8 and purified synthetic air (see section 1.2.1); CO and purified nitrogen; NOx and purified nitrogen (the amount of NO2 contained in this calibration gas must not exceed 5% of the NO content); CO2 and purified nitrogen CH4 and purified synthetic air C2H6 and purified synthetic air Note: Other gas combinations are allowed provided the gases do not react with one another. The true concentration of a calibration and span gas must be within ± 2% of the nominal value. All concentrations of calibration gas shall be given on a volume basis (volume percent or volume ppm). The gases used for calibration and span may also be obtained by means of a gas divider, diluting with purified N2 or with purified synthetic air. The accuracy of the mixing device must be such that the concentration of the diluted calibration gases may be determined to within ± 2%.1.3. Operating Procedure for Analysers and Sampling System The operating procedure for analysers shall follow the start-up and operating instructions of the instrument manufacturer. The minimum requirements given in sections 1.4 to 1.9 shall be included.1.4. Leakage test A system leakage test shall be performed. The probe shall be disconnected from the exhaust system and the end plugged. The analyser pump shall be switched on. After an initial stabilisation period all flow meters should read zero. If not, the sampling lines shall be checked and the fault corrected. The maximum allowable leakage rate on the vacuum side shall be 0,5% of the in-use flow rate for the portion of the system being checked. The analyser flows and bypass flows may be used to estimate the in-use flow rates. Another method is the introduction of a concentration step change at the beginning of the sampling line by switching from zero to span gas. If after an adequate period of time the reading shows a lower concentration compared to the introduced concentration, this points to calibration or leakage problems.1.5. Calibration Procedure1.5.1. Instrument Assembly The instrument assembly shall be calibrated and calibration curves checked against standard gases. The same gas flow rates shall be used as when sampling exhaust.1.5.2. Warming-up Time The warming-up time should be according to the recommendations of the manufacturer. If not specified, a minimum of two hours is recommended for warming up the analysers.1.5.3. NDIR and HFID Analyser The NDIR analyser shall be tuned, as necessary, and the combustion flame of the HFID analyser shall be optimised (section 1.8.1).1.5.4. Calibration Each normally used operating range shall be calibrated. Using purified synthetic air (or nitrogen), the CO, CO2, NOx and HC analysers shall be set at zero.
Using purified synthetic air (or nitrogen), the CO, CO2, NOx and HC analysers shall be set at zero. The appropriate calibration gases shall be introduced to the analysers, the values recorded, and the calibration curve established according to section 1.5.5. The zero setting shall be rechecked and the calibration procedure repeated, if necessary.1.5.5. Establishment of the Calibration Curve1.5.5.1. General Guidelines The analyser calibration curve shall be established by at least five calibration points (excluding zero) spaced as uniformly as possible. The highest nominal concentration must be equal to or higher than 90% of full scale. The calibration curve shall be calculated by the method of least squares. If the resulting polynomial degree is greater than 3, the number of calibration points (zero included) must be at least equal to this polynomial degree plus 2. The calibration curve must not differ by more than ± 2% from the nominal value of each calibration point and by more than ± 1% of full scale at zero. From the calibration curve and the calibration points, it is possible to verify that the calibration has been carried out correctly. The different characteristic parameters of the analyser must be indicated, particularly:- the measuring range,- the sensitivity,- the date of carrying out the calibration.1.5.5.2. Calibration below 15% of Full Scale The analyser calibration curve shall be established by at least 4 additional calibration points (excluding zero) spaced nominally equally below 15% of full scale. The calibration curve is calculated by the method of least squares. The calibration curve must not differ by more than ± 4% from the nominal value of each calibration point and by more than ± 1% of full scale at zero.1.5.5.3. Alternative Methods If it can be shown that alternative technology (e.g. computer, electronically controlled range switch, etc.) can give equivalent accuracy, then these alternatives may be used.1.6. Verification of the Calibration Each normally used operating range shall be checked prior to each analysis in accordance with the following procedure. The calibration shall be checked by using a zero gas and a span gas whose nominal value is more than 80% of full scale of the measuring range. If, for the two points considered, the value found does not differ by more than ± 4% of full scale from the declared reference value, the adjustment parameters may be modified. Should this not be the case, a new calibration curve shall be established in accordance with section 1.5.5.1.7. Efficiency test of the NOx Converter The efficiency of the converter used for the conversion of NO2 into NO shall be tested as given in sections 1.7.1 to 1.7.8 (Figure 6).1.7.1. Test Set-up Using the test set-up as shown in Figure 6 (see also Annex III, Appendix 4, section 3.3.5) and the procedure below, the efficiency of converters can be tested by means of an ozonator.1.7.2. Calibration The CLD and the HCLD shall be calibrated in the most common operating range following the manufacturer's specifications using zero and span gas (the NO content of which must amount to about 80% of the operating range and the NO2 concentration of the gas mixture to less than 5% of the NO concentration). The NOx analyser must be in the NO mode so that the span gas does not pass through the converter. The indicated concentration has to be recorded.1.7.3. Calculation The efficiency of the NOx converter is calculated as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where,>TABLE POSITION>1.7.4. Adding of Oxygen Via a T-fitting, oxygen or zero air is added continuously to the gas flow until the concentration indicated is about 20% less than the indicated calibration concentration given in section 1.7.2 (The analyser is in the NO mode). The indicated concentration c shall be recorded. The ozonator is kept deactivated throughout the process.1.7.5. Activation of the Ozonator The ozonator is now activated to generate enough ozone to bring the NO concentration down to about 20% (minimum 10%) of the calibration concentration given in section 1.7.2. The indicated concentration d shall be recorded (The analyser is in the NO mode).1.7.6. NOx Mode The NO analyser is then switched to the NOx mode so that the gas mixture (consisting of NO, NO2, O2 and N2) now passes through the converter. The indicated concentration a shall be recorded. (The analyser is in the NOx mode).1.7.7. Deactivation of the Ozonator The ozonator is now deactivated. The mixture of gases described in section 1.7.6 passes through the converter into the detector. The indicated concentration b shall be recorded. (The analyser is in the NOx mode).1.7.8. NO Mode Switched to NO mode with the ozonator deactivated, the flow of oxygen or synthetic air is also shut off. The NOx reading of the analyser shall not deviate by more than ± 5% from the value measured according to section 1.7.2. (The analyser is in the NO mode).1.7.9. Test Interval The efficiency of the converter must be tested prior to each calibration of the NOx analyser.1.7.10. Efficiency Requirement The efficiency of the converter shall not be less than 90%, but a higher efficiency of 95% is strongly recommended. Note: If, with the analyser in the most common range, the ozonator cannot give a reduction from 80% to 20% according to section 1.7.5, then the highest range which will give the reduction shall be used.Figure 6Schematic of NOx converter efficiency device>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>1.8. Adjustment of the FID1.8.1. Optimisation of the Detector Response The FID must be adjusted as specified by the instrument manufacturer. A propane in air span gas should be used to optimise the response on the most common operating range. With the fuel and air flow rates set at the manufacturer's recommendations, a 350 ± 75 ppm C span gas shall be introduced to the analyser. The response at a given fuel flow shall be determined from the difference between the span gas response and the zero gas response. The fuel flow shall be incrementally adjusted above and below the manufacturer's specification. The span and zero response at these fuel flows shall be recorded. The difference between the span and zero response shall be plotted and the fuel flow adjusted to the rich side of the curve.1.8.2. Hydrocarbon Response Factors The analyser shall be calibrated using propane in air and purified synthetic air, according to section 1.5. Response factors shall be determined when introducing an analyser into service and after major service intervals. The response factor (Rf) for a particular hydrocarbon species is the ratio of the FID C1 reading to the gas concentration in the cylinder expressed by ppm C1. The concentration of the test gas must be at a level to give a response of approximately 80% of full scale. The concentration must be known to an accuracy of ± 2% in reference to a gravimetric standard expressed in volume. In addition, the gas cylinder must be preconditioned for 24 hours at a temperature of 298 K ± 5 K (25 °C ± 5 °C). The test gases to be used and the recommended relative response factor ranges are as follows: Methane and purified synthetic air 1,00 Rf 1,15 Propylene and purified synthetic air 0,90 Rf 1,10 Toluene and purified synthetic air 0,90 Rf 1,10 These values are relative to the response factor (Rf) of 1,00 for propane and purified synthetic air.1.8.3. Oxygen Interference Check The oxygen interference check shall be determined when introducing an analyser into service and after major service intervals. The response factor is defined and shall be determined as described in section 1.8.2. The test gas to be used and the recommended relative response factor range are as follows:Propane and nitrogen 0,95 Rf 1,05 This value is relative to the response factor (Rf) of 1,00 for propane and purified synthetic air. The FID burner air oxygen concentration must be within ± 1 mole % of the oxygen concentration of the burner air used in the latest oxygen interference check.
The FID burner air oxygen concentration must be within ± 1 mole % of the oxygen concentration of the burner air used in the latest oxygen interference check. If the difference is greater, the oxygen interference must be checked and the analyser adjusted, if necessary.1.8.4. Efficiency of the Non-Methane Cutter (NMC, For NG Fuelled Gas Engines Only) The NMC is used for the removal of the non-methane hydrocarbons from the sample gas by oxidising all hydrocarbons except methane. Ideally, the conversion for methane is 0%, and for the other hydrocarbons represented by ethane is 100%. For the accurate measurement of NMHC, the two efficiencies shall be determined and used for the calculation of the NMHC emission mass flow rate (see Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.3).1.8.4.1. Methane Efficiency Methane calibration gas shall be flown through the FID with and without bypassing the NMC and the two concentrations recorded. The efficiency shall be determined as follows:CEM = 1 2 (concw/concw/o) where,>TABLE POSITION>1.8.4.2. Ethane Efficiency Ethane calibration gas shall be flown through the FID with and without bypassing the NMC and the two concentrations recorded. The efficiency shall be determined as follows>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where,>TABLE POSITION>1.9. Interference Effects with CO, CO2, and NOx Analysers Gases present in the exhaust other than the one being analysed can interfere with the reading in several ways. Positive interference occurs in NDIR instruments where the interfering gas gives the same effect as the gas being measured, but to a lesser degree. Negative interference occurs in NDIR instruments by the interfering gas broadening the absorption band of the measured gas, and in CLD instruments by the interfering gas quenching the radiation. The interference checks in sections 1.9.1 and 1.9.2 shall be performed prior to an analyser's initial use and after major service intervals.1.9.1. CO Analyser Interference Check Water and CO2 can interfere with the CO analyser performance. Therefore, a CO2 span gas having a concentration of 80 to 100% of full scale of the maximum operating range used during testing shall be bubbled through water at room temperature and the analyser response recorded. The analyser response must not be more than 1% of full scale for ranges equal to or above 300 ppm or more than 3 ppm for ranges below 300 ppm.1.9.2. NOx Analyser Quench Checks The two gases of concern for CLD (and HCLD) analysers are CO2 and water vapour. Quench responses to these gases are proportional to their concentrations, and therefore require test techniques to determine the quench at the highest expected concentrations experienced during testing.1.9.2.1. CO2 Quench Check A CO2 span gas having a concentration of 80 to 100% of full scale of the maximum operating range shall be passed through the NDIR analyser and the CO2 value recorded as A. It shall then be diluted approximately 50% with NO span gas and passed through the NDIR and (H)CLD, with the CO2 and NO values recorded as B and C, respectively. The CO2 shall then be shut off and only the NO span gas be passed through the (H)CLD and the NO value recorded as D. The quench, which must not be greater than 3 % of full scale, shall be calculated as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>TABLE POSITION> Alternative methods of diluting and quantifying of CO2 and NO span gas values such as dynamic mixing/blending can be used.1.9.2.2. Water Quench Check This check applies to wet gas concentration measurements only. Calculation of water quench must consider dilution of the NO span gas with water vapour and scaling of water vapour concentration of the mixture to that expected during testing. A NO span gas having a concentration of 80 to 100% of full scale of the normal operating range shall be passed through the (H)CLD and the NO value recorded as D. The NO span gas shall then be bubbled through water at room temperature and passed through the (H)CLD and the NO value recorded as C. The analyser's absolute operating pressure and the water temperature shall be determined and recorded as E and F, respectively. The mixture's saturation vapour pressure that corresponds to the bubbler water temperature F shall be determined and recorded as G. The water vapour concentration (H, in %) of the mixture shall be calculated as follows:H = 100 H (G/E) The expected diluted NO span gas (in water vapour) concentration (De) shall be calculated as follows:De = D D (1 2 H/100) For diesel exhaust, the maximum exhaust water vapour concentration (Hm, in %) expected during testing shall be estimated, under the assumption of a fuel atom H/C ratio of 1,8:1, from the undiluted CO2 span gas concentration (A, as measured in section 1.9.2.1) as follows:Hm = 0,9 H A The water quench, which must not be greater than 3%, shall be calculated as follows:% quench = 100 % ((De 2 C)/De) (Hm/H) where,>TABLE POSITION> Note: It is important that the NO span gas contains minimal NO2 concentration for this check, since absorption of NO2 in water has not been accounted for in the quench calculations.1.10. Calibration Intervals The analysers shall be calibrated according to section 1.5 at least every 3 months or whenever a system repair or change is made that could influence calibration.2. CALIBRATION OF THE CVS-SYSTEM2.1. General The CVS system shall be calibrated by using an accurate flowmeter traceable to national or international standards and a restricting device. The flow through the system shall be measured at different restriction settings, and the control parameters of the system shall be measured and related to the flow. Various types of flowmeters may be used, e.g. calibrated venturi, calibrated laminar flowmeter, calibrated turbinemeter.2.2. Calibration of the Positive Displacement Pump (PDP) All parameters related to the pump shall be simultaneously measured with the parameters related to the flowmeter which is connected in series with the pump. The calculated flow rate (in m3/min at pump inlet, absolute pressure and temperature) shall be plotted versus a correlation function which is the value of a specific combination of pump parameters. The linear equation which relates the pump flow and the correlation function shall then be determined. If a CVS has a multiple speed drive, the calibration shall be performed for each range used. Temperature stability shall be maintained during calibration.2.2.1. Data Analysis The air flowrate (Qs) at each restriction setting (minimum 6 settings) shall be calculated in standard m3/min from the flowmeter data using the manufacturer's prescribed method. The air flow rate shall then be converted to pump flow (V0) in m3/rev at absolute pump inlet temperature and pressure as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where,>TABLE POSITION> To account for the interaction of pressure variations at the pump and the pump slip rate, the correlation function (X0) between pump speed, pressure differential from pump inlet to pump outlet and absolute pump outlet pressure shall be calculated as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where,>TABLE POSITION> A linear least-square fit shall be performed to generate the calibration equation as follows:V0 = D0 2 m V (X0) D0 and m are the intercept and slope constants, respectively, describing the regression lines. For a CVS system with multiple speeds, the calibration curves generated for the different pump flow ranges shall be approximately parallel, and the intercept values (D0) shall increase as the pump flow range decreases. The calculated values from the equation shall be within ± 0,5% of the measured value of V0. Values of m will vary from one pump to another.
The calculated values from the equation shall be within ± 0,5% of the measured value of V0. Values of m will vary from one pump to another. Particulate influx over time will cause the pump slip to decrease, as reflected by lower values for m. Therefore, calibration shall be performed at pump start-up, after major maintenance, and if the total system verification (section 2.4) indicates a change of the slip rate.2.3. Calibration of the Critical Flow Venturi (CFV) Calibration of the CFV is based upon the flow equation for a critical venturi. Gas flow is a function of inlet pressure and temperature, as shown below:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where,>TABLE POSITION>2.3.1. Data Analysis The air flowrate (Qs) at each restriction setting (minimum 8 settings) shall be calculated in standard m3/min from the flowmeter data using the manufacturer's prescribed method. The calibration coefficient shall be calculated from the calibration data for each setting as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where,>TABLE POSITION> To determine the range of critical flow, Kv shall be plotted as a function of venturi inlet pressure. For critical (choked) flow, Kv will have a relatively constant value. As pressure decreases (vacuum increases), the venturi becomes unchoked and Kv decreases, which indicates that the CFV is operated outside the permissible range. For a minimum of eight points in the region of critical flow, the average Kv and the standard deviation shall be calculated. The standard deviation shall not exceed ± 0,3% of the average KV.2.4. Total System Verification The total accuracy of the CVS sampling system and analytical system shall be determined by introducing a known mass of a pollutant gas into the system while it is being operated in the normal manner. The pollutant is analysed, and the mass calculated according to Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.3 except in the case of propane where a factor of 0,000472 is used in place of 0,000479 for HC. Either of the following two techniques shall be used.2.4.1. Metering with a Critical Flow Orifice A known quantity of pure gas (carbon monoxide or propane) shall be fed into the CVS system through a calibrated critical orifice. If the inlet pressure is high enough, the flow rate, which is adjusted by means of the critical flow orifice, is independent of the orifice outlet pressure ( critical flow). The CVS system shall be operated as in a normal exhaust emission test for about 5 to 10 minutes. A gas sample shall be analysed with the usual equipment (sampling bag or integrating method), and the mass of the gas calculated. The mass so determined shall be within ± 3% of the known mass of the gas injected.2.4.2. Metering by Means of a Gravimetric Technique The weight of a small cylinder filled with carbon monoxide or propane shall be determined with a precision of ± 0,01 gram. For about 5 to 10 minutes, the CVS system shall be operated as in a normal exhaust emission test, while carbon monoxide or propane is injected into the system. The quantity of pure gas discharged shall be determined by means of differential weighing. A gas sample shall be analysed with the usual equipment (sampling bag or integrating method), and the mass of the gas calculated. The mass so determined shall be within ± 3% of the known mass of the gas injected.3. CALIBRATION OF THE PARTICULATE MEASURING SYSTEM3.1. Introduction Each component shall be calibrated as often as necessary to fulfil the accuracy requirements of this Directive. The calibration method to be used is described in this section for the components indicated in Annex III, Appendix 4, section 4 and Annex V, section 2.3.2. Flow Measurement The calibration of gas flow meters or flow measurement instrumentation shall be traceable to international and/or national standards. The maximum error of the measured value shall be within ± 2 % of reading. If the gas flow is determined by differential flow measurement, the maximum error of the difference shall be such that the accuracy of GEDF is within ± 4% (see also Annex V, section 2.2.1, EGA). It can be calculated by taking the Root-Mean-Square of the errors of each instrument.3.3. Checking the Partial Flow Conditions The range of the exhaust gas velocity and the pressure oscillations shall be checked and adjusted according to the requirements of Annex V, section 2.2.1, EP, if applicable.3.4. Calibration Intervals The flow measurement instrumentation shall be calibrated at least every 3 months or whenever a system repair or change is made that could influence calibration.4. CALIBRATION OF THE SMOKE MEASUREMENT EQUIPMENT4.1. Introduction The opacimeter shall be calibrated as often as necessary to fulfil the accuracy requirements of this Directive. The calibration method to be used is described in this section for the components indicated in Annex III, Appendix 4, section 5 and Annex V, section 3.4.2. Calibration Procedure4.2.1. Warming-up Time The opacimeter shall be warmed up and stabilised according to the manufacturer's recommendations. If the opacimeter is equipped with a purge air system to prevent sooting of the instrument optics, this system should also be activated and adjusted according to the manufacturer's recommendations.4.2.2. Establishment of the Linearity Response The linearity of the opacimeter shall be checked in the opacity readout mode as per the manufacturer's recommendations. Three neutral density filters of known transmittance, which shall meet the requirements of Annex III, Appendix 4, section 5.2.5, shall be introduced to the opacimeter and the value recorded. The neutral density filters shall have nominal opacities of approximately 10%, 20% and 40%. The linearity must not differ by more than ± 2% opacity from the nominal value of the neutral density filter. Any non-linearity exceeding the above value must be corrected prior to the test.4.3. Calibration Intervals The opacimeter shall be calibrated according to section 4.2.2 at least every 3 months or whenever a system repair or change is made that could influence calibration.ANNEX IVTECHNICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF REFERENCE FUEL PRESCRIBED FOR APPROVAL TESTS AND TO VERIFY CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION1 1.1. DIESEL FUEL1>TABLE POSITION> 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 91.2. Ethanol for diesel engines1>TABLE POSITION> 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 102. NATURAL GAS (NG)European market fuels are available in two ranges:- the H range, whose extreme reference fuels are GR and G23;- the L range, whose extreme reference fuels are G23 and G25.The characteristics of GR, G23 and G25 reference fuels are summarised below:>TABLE POSITION>>TABLE POSITION>>TABLE POSITION>3. LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (LPG)>TABLE POSITION> 1999/96/EC Art. 1(3) and AnnexANNEX VANALYTICAL AND SAMPLING SYSTEMS1. DETERMINATION OF THE GASEOUS EMISSIONS1.1. Introduction Section 1.2 and figures 7 and 8 contain detailed descriptions of the recommended sampling and analysing systems. Since various configurations can produce equivalent results, exact conformance with figures 7 and 8 is not required. Additional components such as instruments, valves, solenoids, pumps, and switches may be used to provide additional information and co-ordinate the functions of the component systems.
Additional components such as instruments, valves, solenoids, pumps, and switches may be used to provide additional information and co-ordinate the functions of the component systems. Other components which are not needed to maintain the accuracy on some systems, may be excluded if their exclusion is based upon good engineering judgement.Figure 7Flow diagram of raw exhaust gas analysis system for CO, CO2, NOx, HC ESC only>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>1.2. Description of the Analytical System An analytical system for the determination of the gaseous emissions in the raw (Figure 7, ESC only) or diluted (Figure 8, ETC and ESC) exhaust gas is described based on the use of:- HFID analyser for the measurement of hydrocarbons;- NDIR analysers for the measurement of carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide;- HCLD or equivalent analyser for the measurement of the oxides of nitrogen; The sample for all components may be taken with one sampling probe or with two sampling probes located in close proximity and internally split to the different analysers. Care must be taken that no condensation of exhaust components (including water and sulphuric acid) occurs at any point of the analytical system.Figure 8Flow diagram of diluted exhaust gas analysis system for CO, CO2, NOx, HC ETC, optional for ESC>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>1.2.1. Components of figures 7 and 8 EP Exhaust pipe Exhaust gas sampling probe (Figure 7 only) A stainless steel straight closed end multi-hole probe is recommended. The inside diameter shall not be greater than the inside diameter of the sampling line. The wall thickness of the probe shall not be greater than 1 mm. There shall be a minimum of 3 holes in 3 different radial planes sized to sample approximately the same flow. The probe must extend across at least 80 % of the diameter of the exhaust pipe. One or two sampling probes may be used. SP2 Diluted exhaust gas HC sampling probe (Figure 8 only) The probe shall:- be defined as the first 254 mm to 762 mm of the heated sampling line HSL1;- have a 5 mm minimum inside diameter;- be installed in the dilution tunnel DT (see section 2.3, Figure 20) at a point where the dilution air and exhaust gas are well mixed (i.e. approximately 10 tunnel diameters downstream of the point where the exhaust enters the dilution tunnel);- be sufficiently distant (radially) from other probes and the tunnel wall so as to be free from the influence of any wakes or eddies;- be heated so as to increase the gas stream temperature to 463 K ± 10 K (190 °C ± 10 °C) at the exit of the probe. SP3 Diluted exhaust gas CO, CO2, NOx sampling probe (Figure 8 only) The probe shall:- be in the same plane as SP 2;- be sufficiently distant (radially) from other probes and the tunnel wall so as to be free from the influence of any wakes or eddies;- be heated and insulated over its entire length to a minimum temperature of 328 K (55 °C) to prevent water condensation. HSL1 Heated sampling line The sampling line provides a gas sample from a single probe to the split point(s) and the HC analyser. The sampling line shall:- have a 5 mm minimum and a 13,5 mm maximum inside diameter;- be made of stainless steel or PTFE;- maintain a wall temperature of 463 K ± 10 K (190 °C ± 10 °C) as measured at every separately controlled heated section, if the temperature of the exhaust gas at the sampling probe is equal to or below 463 K (190 °C);- maintain a wall temperature greater than 453 K (180 °C), if the temperature of the exhaust gas at the sampling probe is above 463 K (190 °C);- maintain a gas temperature of 463 K ± 10 K (190 °C ± 10 °C) immediately before the heated filter F2 and the HFID; HSL2 Heated NOx sampling line The sampling line shall:- maintain a wall temperature of 328 K to 473 K (55 °C to 200 °C), up to the converter C when using a cooling bath B, and up to the analyser when a cooling bath B is not used.- be made of stainless steel or PTFE. SL Sampling line for CO and CO2 The line shall be made of PTFE or stainless steel. It may be heated or unheated. BK Background bag (optional; Figure 8 only) For the sampling of the background concentrations. BG Sample bag (optional; Figure 8 CO and CO2 only) For the sampling of the sample concentrations. F1 Heated pre-filter (optional) The temperature shall be the same as HSL1. F2 Heated filter The filter shall extract any solid particles from the gas sample prior to the analyser. The temperature shall be the same as HSL1. The filter shall be changed as needed. P Heated sampling pump The pump shall be heated to the temperature of HSL1. HC Heated flame ionisation detector (HFID) for the determination of the hydrocarbons. The temperature shall be kept at 453 K to 473 K (180 °C to 200 °C). CO, CO2 NDIR analysers for the determination of carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide (optional for the determination of the dilution ratio for PT measurement). NO CLD or HCLD analyser for the determination of the oxides of nitrogen. If a HCLD is used it shall be kept at a temperature of 328 K to 473 K (55 °C to 200 °C). C Converter A converter shall be used for the catalytic reduction of NO2 to NO prior to analysis in the CLD or HCLD. B Cooling bath (optional) To cool and condense water from the exhaust sample. The bath shall be maintained at a temperature of 273 K to 277 K (0 °C to 4 °C) by ice or refrigeration. It is optional if the analyser is free from water vapour interference as determined in Annex III, Appendix 5, sections 1.9.1 and 1.9.2. If water is removed by condensation, the sample gas temperature or dew point shall be monitored either within the water trap or downstream. The sample gas temperature or dew point must not exceed 280 K (7 °C). Chemical dryers are not allowed for removing water from the sample. T1, T2, T3 Temperature sensor To monitor the temperature of the gas stream. T4 Temperature sensor To monitor the temperature of the NO2-NO converter. T5 Temperature sensor To monitor the temperature of the cooling bath. G1, G2, G3 Pressure gauge To measure the pressure in the sampling lines. R1, R2 Pressure regulator To control the pressure of the air and the fuel, respectively, for the HFID. R3, R4, R5 Pressure regulator To control the pressure in the sampling lines and the flow to the analysers. FL1, FL2, FL3 Flowmeter To monitor the sample by-pass flow rate. FL4 to FL6 Flowmeter (optional) To monitor the flow rate through the analysers. V1 to V5 Selector valve Suitable valving for selecting sample, span gas or zero gas flow to the analysers. V6, V7 Solenoid valve To by-pass the NO2-NO converter. V8 Needle valve To balance the flow through the NO2-NO converter C and the by-pass. V9, V10 Needle valve To regulate the flows to the analysers. V11, V12 Toggle valve (optional) To drain the condensate from the bath B.1.3. NMHC Analysis (NG Fuelled Gas Engines Only)1.3.1. Gas Chromatographic Method (GC, Figure 9) When using the GC method, a small measured volume of a sample is injected onto an analytical column through which it is swept by an inert carrier gas. The column separates various components according to their boiling points so that they elute from the column at different times. They then pass through a detector which gives an electrical signal that depends on their concentration. Since it is not a continuous analysis technique, it can only be used in conjunction with the bag sampling method as described in Annex III, Appendix 4, section 3.4.2. For NMHC an automated GC with a FID shall be used. The exhaust gas shall be sampled into a sampling bag from which a part shall be taken and injected into the GC. The sample is separated into two parts (CH4/Air/CO and NMHC/CO2/H2O) on the Porapak column. The molecular sieve column separates CH4 from the air and CO before passing it to the FID where its concentration is measured.
The molecular sieve column separates CH4 from the air and CO before passing it to the FID where its concentration is measured. A complete cycle from injection of one sample to injection of a second can be made in 30 s. To determine NMHC, the CH4 concentration shall be subtracted from the total HC concentration (see Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.3.1). Figure 9 shows a typical GC assembled to routinely determine CH4. Other GC methods can also be used based on good engineering judgement.Figure 9Flow diagram for methane analysis (GC method)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Components of Figure 9 PC Porapak column Porapak N, 180/300 ìm (50/80 mesh), 610 mm length × 2,16 mm ID shall be used and conditioned at least 12 h at 423 K (150 °C) with carrier gas prior to initial use. MSC Molecular sieve column Type 13X, 250/350 ìm (45/60 mesh), 1220 mm length × 2,16 mm ID shall be used and conditioned at least 12 h at 423 K (150 °C) with carrier gas prior to initial use. OV Oven To maintain columns and valves at stable temperature for analyser operation, and to condition the columns at 423 K (150 °C). SLP Sample loop A sufficient length of stainless steel tubing to obtain approximately 1 cm3 volume. P Pump To bring the sample to the gas chromatograph. D Dryer A dryer containing a molecular sieve shall be used to remove water and other contaminants which might be present in the carrier gas. HC Flame ionisation detector (FID) to measure the concentration of methane. V1 Sample injection valve To inject the sample taken from the sampling bag via SL of Figure 8. It shall be low dead volume, gas tight, and heatable to 423 K (150 °C). V3 Selector valve To select span gas, sample, or no flow. V2, V4, V5, V6, V7, V8 Needle valve To set the flows in the system. R1, R2, R3 Pressure regulator To control the flows of the fuel (= carrier gas), the sample, and the air, respectively. FC Flow capillary To control the rate of air flow to the FID G1, G2, G3 Pressure gauge To control the flows of the fuel (= carrier gas), the sample, and the air, respectively. F1, F2, F3, F4, F5 Filter Sintered metal filters to prevent grit from entering the pump or the instrument. FL1 To measure the sample by-pass flow rate.1.3.2. Non-Methane Cutter Method (NMC, Figure 10) The cutter oxidises all hydrocarbons except CH4 to CO2 and H2O, so that by passing the sample through the NMC only CH4 is detected by the FID. If bag sampling is used, a flow diverter system shall be installed at SL (see section 1.2, Figure 8) with which the flow can be alternatively passed through or around the cutter according to the upper part of Figure 10. For NMHC measurement, both values (HC and CH4) shall be observed on the FID and recorded. If the integration method is used, an NMC in line with a second FID shall be installed parallel to the regular FID into HSL1 (see section 1.2, Figure 8) according to the lower part of Figure 10. For NMHC measurement, the values of the two FID's (HC and CH4) shall be observed and recorded. The cutter shall be characterised at or above 600 K (327 °C) prior to test work with respect to its catalytic effect on CH4 and C2H6 at H2O values representative of exhaust stream conditions. The dewpoint and O2 level of the sampled exhaust stream must be known. The relative response of the FID to CH4 must be recorded (see Annex III, Appendix 5, section 1.8.2).Figure 10Flow diagram for methane analysis with the non-methane cutter (NMC)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Components of Figure 10 NMC Non-methane cutter To oxidise all hydrocarbons except methane. HC Heated flame ionisation detector (HFID) to measure the HC and CH4 concentrations. The temperature shall be kept at 453 K to 473 K (180 °C to 200 °C). V1 Selector valve To select sample, zero and span gas. V1 is identical with V2 of Figure 8. V2, V3 Solenoid valve To by-pass the NMC. V4 Needle valve To balance the flow through the NMC and the by-pass. R1 Pressure regulator To control the pressure in the sampling line and the flow to the HFID. R1 is identical with R3 of Figure 8. FL1 Flowmeter To measure the sample by-pass flow rate. FL1 is identical with FL1 of Figure 8.2. EXHAUST GAS DILUTION AND DETERMINATION OF THE PARTICULATES2.1. Introduction Sections 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4 and figures 11 to 22 contain detailed descriptions of the recommended dilution and sampling systems. Since various configurations can produce equivalent results, exact conformance with these figures is not required. Additional components such as instruments, valves, solenoids, pumps, and switches may be used to provide additional information and coordinate the functions of the component systems. Other components which are not needed to maintain the accuracy on some systems, may be excluded if their exclusion is based upon good engineering judgement.2.2. Partial Flow Dilution System A dilution system is described in figures 11 to 19 based upon the dilution of a part of the exhaust stream. Splitting of the exhaust stream and the following dilution process may be done by different dilution system types. For subsequent collection of the particulates, the entire dilute exhaust gas or only a portion of the dilute exhaust gas is passed to the particulate sampling system (section 2.4, Figure 21). The first method is referred to as total sampling type, the second method as fractional sampling type. The calculation of the dilution ratio depends upon the type of system used. The following types are recommended: Isokinetic systems (Figures 11, 12) With these systems, the flow into the transfer tube is matched to the bulk exhaust flow in terms of gas velocity and/or pressure, thus requiring an undisturbed and uniform exhaust flow at the sampling probe. This is usually achieved by using a resonator and a straight approach tube upstream of the sampling point. The split ratio is then calculated from easily measurable values like tube diameters. It should be noted that isokinesis is only used for matching the flow conditions and not for matching the size distribution. The latter is typically not necessary, as the particles are sufficiently small as to follow the fluid streamlines. Flow controlled systems with concentration measurement (Figures 13 to 17) With these systems, a sample is taken from the bulk exhaust stream by adjusting the dilution air flow and the total dilute exhaust flow. The dilution ratio is determined from the concentrations of tracer gases, such as CO2 or NOx naturally occurring in the engine exhaust. The concentrations in the dilute exhaust gas and in the dilution air are measured, whereas the concentration in the raw exhaust gas can be either measured directly or determined from fuel flow and the carbon balance equation, if the fuel composition is known. The systems may be controlled by the calculated dilution ratio (Figures 13, 14) or by the flow into the transfer tube (Figures 12, 13, 14). Flow controlled systems with flow measurement (Figures 18, 19) With these systems, a sample is taken from the bulk exhaust stream by setting the dilution air flow and the total dilute exhaust flow. The dilution ratio is determined from the difference of the two flows rates. Accurate calibration of the flow meters relative to one another is required, since the relative magnitude of the two flow rates can lead to significant errors at higher dilution ratios (of 15 and above). Flow control is very straight forward by keeping the dilute exhaust flow rate constant and varying the dilution air flow rate, if needed. When using partial flow dilution systems, attention must be paid to avoiding the potential problems of loss of particulates in the transfer tube, ensuring that a representative sample is taken from the engine exhaust, and determination of the split ratio.
When using partial flow dilution systems, attention must be paid to avoiding the potential problems of loss of particulates in the transfer tube, ensuring that a representative sample is taken from the engine exhaust, and determination of the split ratio. The systems described pay attention to these critical areas.Figure 11Partial flow dilution system with isokinetic probe and fractional sampling (SB control)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Raw exhaust gas is transferred from the exhaust pipe EP to the dilution tunnel DT through the transfer tube TT by the isokinetic sampling probe ISP. The differential pressure of the exhaust gas between exhaust pipe and inlet to the probe is measured with the pressure transducer DPT. This signal is transmitted to the flow controller FC1 that controls the suction blower SB to maintain a differential pressure of zero at the tip of the probe. Under these conditions, exhaust gas velocities in EP and ISP are identical, and the flow through ISP and TT is a constant fraction (split) of the exhaust gas flow. The split ratio is determined from the cross sectional areas of EP and ISP. The dilution air flow rate is measured with the flow measurement device FM1. The dilution ratio is calculated from the dilution air flow rate and the split ratio.Figure 12Partial flow dilution system with isokinetic probe and fractional sampling (PB control)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Raw exhaust gas is transferred from the exhaust pipe EP to the dilution tunnel DT through the transfer tube TT by the isokinetic sampling probe ISP. The differential pressure of the exhaust gas between exhaust pipe and inlet to the probe is measured with the pressure transducer DPT. This signal is transmitted to the flow controller FC1 that controls the pressure blower PB to maintain a differential pressure of zero at the tip of the probe. This is done by taking a small fraction of the dilution air whose flow rate has already been measured with the flow measurement device FM1, and feeding it to TT by means of a pneumatic orifice. Under these conditions, exhaust gas velocities in EP and ISP are identical, and the flow through ISP and TT is a constant fraction (split) of the exhaust gas flow. The split ratio is determined from the cross sectional areas of EP and ISP. The dilution air is sucked through DT by the suction blower SB, and the flow rate is measured with FM1 at the inlet to DT. The dilution ratio is calculated from the dilution air flow rate and the split ratio.Figure 13Partial flow dilution system with CO2 or NOx concentration measurement and fractional sampling>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Raw exhaust gas is transferred from the exhaust pipe EP to the dilution tunnel DT through the sampling probe SP and the transfer tube TT. The concentrations of a tracer gas (CO2 or NOx) are measured in the raw and diluted exhaust gas as well as in the dilution air with the exhaust gas analyser(s) EGA. These signals are transmitted to the flow controller FC2 that controls either the pressure blower PB or the suction blower SB to maintain the desired exhaust split and dilution ratio in DT. The dilution ratio is calculated from the tracer gas concentrations in the raw exhaust gas, the diluted exhaust gas, and the dilution air.Figure 14Partial flow dilution system with CO2 concentration measurement, carbon balance and total sampling>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Raw exhaust gas is transferred from the exhaust pipe EP to the dilution tunnel DT through the sampling probe SP and the transfer tube TT. The CO2 concentrations are measured in the diluted exhaust gas and in the dilution air with the exhaust gas analyser(s) EGA. The CO2 and fuel flow GFUEL signals are transmitted either to the flow controller FC2, or to the flow controller FC3 of the particulate sampling system (see Figure 21). FC2 controls the pressure blower PB, FC3 the sampling pump P (see Figure 21), thereby adjusting the flows into and out of the system so as to maintain the desired exhaust split and dilution ratio in DT. The dilution ratio is calculated from the CO2 concentrations and GFUEL using the carbon balance assumption.Figure 15Partial flow dilution system with single venturi, concentration measurement and fractional sampling>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Raw exhaust gas is transferred from the exhaust pipe EP to the dilution tunnel DT through the sampling probe SP and the transfer tube TT due to the negative pressure created by the venturi VN in DT. The gas flow rate through TT depends on the momentum exchange at the venturi zone, and is therefore affected by the absolute temperature of the gas at the exit of TT. Consequently, the exhaust split for a given tunnel flow rate is not constant, and the dilution ratio at low load is slightly lower than at high load. The tracer gas concentrations (CO2 or NOx) are measured in the raw exhaust gas, the diluted exhaust gas, and the dilution air with the exhaust gas analyser(s) EGA, and the dilution ratio is calculated from the values so measured.Figure 16Partial flow dilution system with twin venturi or twin orifice, concentration measurement and fractional sampling>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Raw exhaust gas is transferred from the exhaust pipe EP to the dilution tunnel DT through the sampling probe SP and the transfer tube TT by a flow divider that contains a set of orifices or venturis. The first one (FD1) is located in EP, the second one (FD2) in TT. Additionally, two pressure control valves (PCV1 and PCV2) are necessary to maintain a constant exhaust split by controlling the backpressure in EP and the pressure in DT. PCV1 is located downstream of SP in EP, PCV2 between the pressure blower PB and DT. The tracer gas concentrations (CO2 or NOx) are measured in the raw exhaust gas, the diluted exhaust gas, and the dilution air with the exhaust gas analyser(s) EGA. They are necessary for checking the exhaust split, and may be used to adjust PCV1 and PCV2 for precise split control. The dilution ratio is calculated from the tracer gas concentrations.Figure 17Partial flow dilution system with multiple tube splitting, concentration measurement and fractional sampling>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Raw exhaust gas is transferred from the exhaust pipe EP to the dilution tunnel DT through the transfer tube TT by the flow divider FD3 that consists of a number of tubes of the same dimensions (same diameter, length and bend radius) installed in EP. The exhaust gas through one of these tubes is lead to DT, and the exhaust gas through the rest of the tubes is passed through the damping chamber DC. Thus, the exhaust split is determined by the total number of tubes. A constant split control requires a differential pressure of zero between DC and the outlet of TT, which is measured with the differential pressure transducer DPT. A differential pressure of zero is achieved by injecting fresh air into DT at the outlet of TT. The tracer gas concentrations (CO2 or NOx) are measured in the raw exhaust gas, the diluted exhaust gas, and the dilution air with the exhaust gas analyser(s) EGA. They are necessary for checking the exhaust split and may be used to control the injection air flow rate for precise split control. The dilution ratio is calculated from the tracer gas concentrations.Figure 18Partial flow dilution system with flow control and total sampling>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Raw exhaust gas is transferred from the exhaust pipe EP to the dilution tunnel DT through the sampling probe SP and the transfer tube TT. The total flow through the tunnel is adjusted with the flow controller FC3 and the sampling pump P of the particulate sampling system (see Figure 18). The dilution air flow is controlled by the flow controller FC2, which may use GEXHW, GAIRW, or GFUEL as command signals, for the desired exhaust split. The sample flow into DT is the difference of the total flow and the dilution air flow.
The sample flow into DT is the difference of the total flow and the dilution air flow. The dilution air flow rate is measured with the flow measurement device FM1, the total flow rate with the flow measurement device FM3 of the particulate sampling system (see Figure 21). The dilution ratio is calculated from these two flow rates.Figure 19Partial flow dilution system with flow control and fractional sampling>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Raw exhaust gas is transferred from the exhaust pipe EP to the dilution tunnel DT through the sampling probe SP and the transfer tube TT. The exhaust split and the flow into DT is controlled by the flow controller FC2 that adjusts the flows (or speeds) of the pressure blower PB and the suction blower SB, accordingly. This is possible since the sample taken with the particulate sampling system is returned into DT. GEXHW, GAIRW, or GFUEL may be used as command signals for FC2. The dilution air flow rate is measured with the flow measurement device FM1, the total flow with the flow measurement device FM2. The dilution ratio is calculated from these two flow rates.2.2.1. Components of Figures 11 to 19 EP Exhaust pipe The exhaust pipe may be insulated. To reduce the thermal inertia of the exhaust pipe a thickness to diameter ratio of 0,015 or less is recommended. The use of flexible sections shall be limited to a length to diameter ratio of 12 or less. Bends shall be minimised to reduce inertial deposition. If the system includes a test bed silencer the silencer may also be insulated. For an isokinetic system, the exhaust pipe must be free of elbows, bends and sudden diameter changes for at least 6 pipe diameters upstream and 3 pipe diameters downstream of the tip of the probe. The gas velocity at the sampling zone must be higher than 10 m/s except at idle mode. Pressure oscillations of the exhaust gas must not exceed ± 500 Pa on the average. Any steps to reduce pressure oscillations beyond using a chassis-type exhaust system (including silencer and aftertreatment devices) must not alter engine performance nor cause the deposition of particulates. For systems without isokinetic probe, it is recommended to have a straight pipe of 6 pipe diameters upstream and 3 pipe diameters downstream of the tip of the probe. SP Sampling probe (Figures 10, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19) The minimum inside diameter shall be 4 mm. The minimum diameter ratio between exhaust pipe and probe shall be 4. The probe shall be an open tube facing upstream on the exhaust pipe centreline, or a multiple hole probe as described under SP1 in section 1.2.1, Figure 5. ISP Isokinetic sampling probe (Figures 11, 12) The isokinetic sampling probe must be installed facing upstream on the exhaust pipe centreline where the flow conditions in section EP are met, and designed to provide a proportional sample of the raw exhaust gas. The minimum inside diameter shall be 12 mm. A control system is necessary for isokinetic exhaust splitting by maintaining a differential pressure of zero between EP and ISP. Under these conditions exhaust gas velocities in EP and ISP are identical and the mass flow through ISP is a constant fraction of the exhaust gas flow. ISP has to be connected to a differential pressure transducer DPT. The control to provide a differential pressure of zero between EP and ISP is done with the flow controller FC1. FD1, FD2 Flow divider (Figure 16) A set of venturis or orifices is installed in the exhaust pipe EP and in the transfer tube TT, respectively, to provide a proportional sample of the raw exhaust gas. A control system consisting of two pressure control valves PCV1 and PCV2 is necessary for proportional splitting by controlling the pressures in EP and DT. FD3 Flow divider (Figure 17) A set of tubes (multiple tube unit) is installed in the exhaust pipe EP to provide a proportional sample of the raw exhaust gas. One of the tubes feeds exhaust gas to the dilution tunnel DT, whereas the other tubes exit exhaust gas to a damping chamber DC. The tubes must have the same dimensions (same diameter, length, bend radius), so that the exhaust split depends on the total number of tubes. A control system is necessary for proportional splitting by maintaining a differential pressure of zero between the exit of the multiple tube unit into DC and the exit of TT. Under these conditions, exhaust gas velocities in EP and FD3 are proportional, and the flow TT is a constant fraction of the exhaust gas flow. The two points have to be connected to a differential pressure transducer DPT. The control to provide a differential pressure of zero is done with the flow controller FC1. EGA Exhaust gas analyser (Figures 13, 14, 15, 16, 17) CO2 or NOx analysers may be used (with carbon balance method CO2 only). The analysers shall be calibrated like the analysers for the measurement of the gaseous emissions. One or several analysers may be used to determine the concentration differences. The accuracy of the measuring systems has to be such that the accuracy of GEDFW,i is within ± 4 %. TT Transfer tube (Figures 11 to 19) The transfer tube shall be:- as short as possible, but not more than 5 m in length,- equal to or greater than the probe diameter, but not more than 25 mm in diameter,- exiting on the centreline of the dilution tunnel and pointing downstream. If the tube is 1 meter or less in length, it shall be insulated with material with a maximum thermal conductivity of 0,05 W/m*K with a radial insulation thickness corresponding to the diameter of the probe. If the tube is longer than 1 meter, it must be insulated and heated to a minimum wall temperature of 523 K (250 °C). DPT Differential pressure transducer (Figures 11, 12, 17) The differential pressure transducer shall have a range of ± 500 Pa or less. FC1 Flow controller (Figures 11, 12, 17) For isokinetic systems (Figures 11,12), a flow controller is necessary to maintain a differential pressure of zero between EP and ISP. The adjustment can be done by:a) controlling the speed or flow of the suction blower SB and keeping the speed or flow of the pressure blower PB constant during each mode (Figure 11); orb) adjusting the suction blower SB to a constant mass flow of the diluted exhaust gas and controlling the flow of the pressure blower PB, and therefore the exhaust sample flow in a region at the end of the transfer tube TT (Figure 12). In the case of a pressure controlled system the remaining error in the control loop must not exceed ± 3 Pa. The pressure oscillations in the dilution tunnel must not exceed ± 250 Pa on the average. For a multi tube system (Figure 17), a flow controller is necessary for proportional exhaust splitting to maintain a differential pressure of zero between the exit of the multi tube unit and the exit of TT. The adjustment is done by controlling the injection air flow rate into DT at the exit of TT. PCV1, PCV2 Pressure control valve (Figure 16) Two pressure control valves are necessary for the twin venturi/twin orifice system for proportional flow splitting by controlling the backpressure of EP and the pressure in DT. The valves shall be located downstream of SP in EP and between PB and DT. DC Damping chamber (Figure 17) A damping chamber shall be installed at the exit of the multiple tube unit to minimise the pressure oscillations in the exhaust pipe EP. VN Venturi (Figure 15) A venturi is installed in the dilution tunnel DT to create a negative pressure in the region of the exit of the transfer tube TT. The gas flow rate through TT is determined by the momentum exchange at the venturi zone, and is basically proportional to the flow rate of the pressure blower PB leading to a constant dilution ratio. Since the momentum exchange is affected by the temperature at the exit of TT and the pressure difference between EP and DT, the actual dilution ratio is slightly lower at low load than at high load.
Since the momentum exchange is affected by the temperature at the exit of TT and the pressure difference between EP and DT, the actual dilution ratio is slightly lower at low load than at high load. FC2 Flow controller (Figures 13, 14, 18, 19, optional) A flow controller may be used to control the flow of the pressure blower PB and/or the suction blower SB. It may be connected to the exhaust, intake air, or fuel flow signals and/or to the CO2 or NOx differential signals. When using a pressurised air supply (Figure 18), FC2 directly controls the air flow. FM1 Flow measurement device (Figures 11, 12, 18, 19) Gas meter or other flow instrumentation to measure the dilution air flow. FM1 is optional if the pressure blower PB is calibrated to measure the flow. FM2 Flow measurement device (Figure 19) Gas meter or other flow instrumentation to measure the diluted exhaust gas flow. FM2 is optional if the suction blower SB is calibrated to measure the flow. PB Pressures blower (Figures 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 19) To control the dilution air flow rate, PB may be connected to the flow controllers FC1 or FC2. PB is not required when using a butterfly valve. PB may be used to to measure the dilution air flow, if calibrated. SB Suction blower (Figures 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 19) For fractional sampling systems only. SB may be used to measure the diluted exhaust gas flow, if calibrated. DAF Dilution air filter (Figures 11 to 19) It is recommended that the dilution air be filtered and charcoal scrubbed to eliminate background hydrocarbons. At the engine manufacturers request the dilution air shall be sampled according to good engineering practice to determine the background particulate levels, which can then be subtracted from the values measured in the diluted exhaust. DT Dilution tunnel (Figures 11 to 19) The dilution tunnel:- shall be of a sufficient length to cause complete mixing of the exhaust and dilution air under turbulent flow conditions;- shall be constructed of stainless steel with:- thickness/diamter ratio of 0,025 or less for dilution tunnels with inside diameters greater than 75 mm;- a nominal thickness of no less then 1,5 mm for dilution tunnels with inside diameters of equal to or less than 75 mm;- shall be at least 75 mm in diameter for the fractional sampling type;- is recommended to be at least 25 mm in diameter for the total sampling type;- may be heated to no greater than 325 K (52 °C) wall temperature by direct heating or by dilution air pre-heating, provided the air temperature does not exceed 325 K (52 °C) prior to the introduction of the exhaust in the dilution tunnel;- may be insulated. The engine exhaust shall be thoroughly mixed with the dilution air. For fractional sampling systems, the mixing quality shall be checked after introduction into service by means of a CO2 -profile of the tunnel with the engine running (at least four equally spaced measuring points). If necessary, a mixing orifice may be used. Note: If the ambient temperature in the vicinity of the dilution tunnel (DT) is below 293K (20 °C), precautions should be taken to avoid particle losses onto the cool walls of the dilution tunnel. Therefore, heating and/or insulating the tunnel within the limits given above is recommended. At high engine loads, the tunnel may be cooled by a non-aggressive means such as a circulating fan, as long as the temperature of the cooling medium is not below 293K (20 °C). HE Heat exchanger (Figures 16, 17) The heat exchanger shall be of sufficient capacity to maintain the temperature at the inlet to the suction blower SB within ± 11K of the average operating temperature observed during the test.2.3 Full flow dilution system A dilution system is described in Figure 20 based upon the dilution of the total exhaust using the CVS (Constant Volume Sampling) concept. The total volume of the mixture of exhaust and dilution air must be measured. Either a PDP or a CFV system may be used. For subsequent collection of the particulates, a sample of the dilute exhaust gas is passed to the particulate sampling system (section 2.4, figures 21 and 22). If this is done directly, it is referred to as single dilution. If the sample is diluted once more in the secondary dilution tunnel, it is referred to as double dilution. This is useful, if the filter face temperature requirement cannot be met with single dilution. Although partly a dilution system, the double dilution system is described as a modification of a particulate sampling system in section 2.4, Figure 22, since it shares most of the parts with a typical particulate sampling system.Figure 20Full flow dilution systemto background filter>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> The total amount of raw exhaust gas is mixed in the dilution tunnel DT with the dilution air. The diluted exhaust gas flow rate is measured either with a Positive Displacement Pump PDP or with a Critical Flow Venturi CFV. A heat exchanger HE or electronic flow compensation EFC may be used for proportional particulate sampling and for flow determination. Since particulate mass determination is based on the total diluted exhaust gas flow, the dilution ratio is not required to be calculated.2.3.1. Components of Figure 20 EP Exhaust pipe The exhaust pipe length from the exit of the engine exhaust manifold, turbocharger outlet or aftertreatment device to the dilution tunnel shall not exceed 10 m. If the exhaust pipe downstream of the engine exhaust manifold, turbocharger outlet or aftertreatment device exceeds 4 m in length, then all tubing in excess of 4 m shall be insulated, except for an in-line smokemeter, if used. The radial thickness of the insulation must be at least 25 mm. The thermal conductivity of the insulating material must have a value no greater than 0,1 W/mK measured at 673 K. To reduce the thermal inertia of the exhaust pipe a thickness to diameter ratio of 0,015 or less is recommended. The use of flexible sections shall be limited to a length to diameter ratio of 12 or less. PDP Positive displacement pump The PDP meters total diluted exhaust flow from the number of the pump revolutions and the pump displacement. The exhaust system backpressure must not be artificially lowered by the PDP or dilution air inlet system. Static exhaust backpressure measured with the PDP system operating shall remain within ± 1,5 kPa of the static pressure measured without connection to the PDP at identical engine speed and load. The gas mixture temperature immediately ahead of the PDP shall be within ± 6 K of the average operating temperature observed during the test, when no flow compensation is used. Flow compensation may only be used if the temperature at the inlet to the PDP does not exceed 323K (50 °C). CFV Critical Flow Venturi CFV measures total diluted exhaust flow by maintaining the flow at choked conditions (critical flow). Static exhaust backpressure measured with the CFV system operating shall remain within ± 1,5 kPa of the static pressure measured without connection to the CFV at identical engine speed and load. The gas mixture temperature immediately ahead of the CFV shall be within ± 11 K of the average operating temperature observed during the test, when no flow compensation is used. HE Heat exchanger (optional, if EFC is used) The heat exchanger shall be of sufficient capacity to maintain the temperature within the limits required above. EFC Electronic flow compensation (optional, if HE is used) If the temperature at the inlet to either the PDP or CFV is not kept within the limits stated above, a flow compensation system is required for continuous measurement of the flow rate and control of the proportional sampling in the particulate system. To that purpose, the continuously measured flow rate signals are used to correct the sample flow rate through the particulate filters of the particulate sampling system (see section 2.4, figures 21, 22), accordingly.
To that purpose, the continuously measured flow rate signals are used to correct the sample flow rate through the particulate filters of the particulate sampling system (see section 2.4, figures 21, 22), accordingly. DT Dilution tunnel The dilution tunnel:- shall be small enough in diameter to cause turbulent flow (Reynolds Number greater than 4 000) and of sufficient length to cause complete mixing of the exhaust and dilution air; a mixing orifice may be used;- shall be at least 460 mm in diameter with a single dilution system;- shall be at least 210 mm in diameter with a double dilution system;- may be insulated. The engine exhaust shall be directed downstream at the point where it is introduced into the dilution tunnel, and thoroughly mixed. When using single dilution, a sample from the dilution tunnel is transferred to the particulate sampling system (section 2.4, Figure 21). The flow capacity of the PDP or CFV must be sufficient to maintain the diluted exhaust at a temperature of less than or equal to 325 K (52 °C) immediately before the primary particulate filter. When using double dilution, a sample from the dilution tunnel is transferred to the secondary dilution tunnel where it is further diluted, and then passed through the sampling filters (section 2.4, Figure 22). The flow capacity of the PDP or CFV must be sufficient to maintain the diluted exhaust stream in the DT at a temperature of less than or equal to 464 K (191 °C) at the sampling zone. The secondary dilution system must provide sufficient secondary dilution air to maintain the doubly-diluted exhaust stream at a temperature of less than or equal to 325 K (52 °C) immediately before the primary particulate filter. DAF Dilution air filter It is recommended that the dilution air be filtered and charcoal scrubbed to eliminate background hydrocarbons. At the engine manufacturers request the dilution air shall be sampled according to good engineering practice to determine the background particulate levels, which can then be subtracted from the values measured in the diluted exhaust. PSP Particulate sampling probe The probe is the leading section of PTT and:- shall be installed facing upstream at a point where the dilution air and exhaust gas are well mixed, i.e. on the dilution tunnel (DT) centreline approximately 10 tunnel diameters downstream of the point where the exhaust enters the dilution tunnel;- shall be of 12 mm minimum inside diameter;- may be heated to no greater than 325 K (52 °C) wall temperature by direct heating or by dilution air pre-heating, provided the air temperature does not exceed 325 K (52 °C) prior to the introduction of the exhaust in the dilution tunnel;- may be insulated.2.4. Particulate Sampling System The particulate sampling system is required for collecting the particulates on the particulate filter. In the case of total sampling partial flow dilution, which consists of passing the entire diluted exhaust sample through the filters, dilution (section 2.2, figures 14, 18) and sampling system usually form an integral unit. In the case of fractional sampling partial flow dilution or full flow dilution, which consists of passing through the filters only a portion of the diluted exhaust, the dilution (section 2.2, figures 11, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 19; section 2.3, Figure 20) and sampling systems usually form different units. In this Directive, the double dilution system (Figure 22) of a full flow dilution system is considered as a specific modification of a typical particulate sampling system as shown in Figure 21. The double dilution system includes all important parts of the particulate sampling system, like filter holders and sampling pump, and additionally. In order to avoid any impact on the control loops, it is recommended that the sample pump be running throughout the complete test procedure. For the single filter method, a bypass system shall be used for passing the sample through the sampling filters at the desired times. Interference of the switching procedure on the control loops must be minimised.Figure 21Particulate sampling system>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> A sample of the diluted exhaust gas is taken from the dilution tunnel DT of a partial flow or full flow dilution system through the particulate sampling probe PSP and the particulate transfer tube PTT by means of the sampling pump P. The sample is passed through the filter holder(s) FH that contain the particulate sampling filters. The sample flow rate is controlled by the flow controller FC3. If electronic flow compensation EFC (see Figure 20) is used, the diluted exhaust gas flow is used as command signal for FC3.Figure 22Double dilution system (full flow system only)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> A sample of the diluted exhaust gas is transferred from the dilution tunnel DT of a full flow dilution system through the particulate sampling probe PSP and the particulate transfer tube PTT to the secondary dilution tunnel SDT, where it is diluted once more. The sample is then passed through the filter holder(s) FH that contain the particulate sampling filters. The dilution air flow rate is usually constant whereas the sample flow rate is controlled by the flow controller FC3. If electronic flow compensation EFC (see Figure 20) is used, the total diluted exhaust gas flow is used as command signal for FC3.2.4.1. Components of figures 21 and 22 PTT Particulate transfer tube (Figures 21, 22) The particulate transfer tube must not exceed 1 020 mm in length, and must be minimised in length whenever possible. Where applicable (i.e. for partial flow dilution fractional sampling systems and for full flow dilution systems), the length of the sampling probes (SP, ISP, PSP, respectively, see sections 2.2 and 2.3) shall be included. The dimensions are valid for:- the partial flow dilution fractional sampling type and the full flow single dilution system from the tip of the probe (SP, ISP, PSP, respectively) to the filter holder;- the partial flow dilution total sampling type from the end of the dilution tunnel to the filter holder;- the full flow double dilution system from the tip of the probe (PSP) to the secondary dilution tunnel. The transfer tube:- may be heated to no greater than 325K (52 °C) wall temperature by direct heating or by dilution air pre-heating, provided the air temperature does not exceed 325 K (52 °C) prior to the introduction of the exhaust in the dilution tunnel;- may be insulated. SDT Secondary dilution tunnel (Figure 22) The secondary dilution tunnel should have a minimum diameter of 75 mm, and should be of sufficient length so as to provide a residence time of at least 0,25 seconds for the doubly-diluted sample. The primary filter holder FH shall be located within 300 mm of the exit of the SDT. The secondary dilution tunnel:- may be heated to no greater than 325 K (52 °C) wall temperature by direct heating or by dilution air pre-heating, provided the air temperature does not exceed 325 K (52 °C) prior to the introduction of the exhaust in the dilution tunnel;- may be insulated. FH Filter holder(s) (Figures 21, 22) For primary and back-up filters one filter housing or separate filter housings may be used. The requirements of Annex III, Appendix 4, section 4.1.3 shall be met. The filter holder(s):- may be heated to no greater than 325 K (52 °C) wall temperature by direct heating or by dilution air pre-heating, provided the air temperature does not exceed 325 K (52 °C) prior to the introduction of the exhaust in the dilution tunnel;- may be insulated. P Sampling pump (Figures 21, 22) The particulate sampling pump shall be located sufficiently distant from the tunnel so that the inlet gas temperature is maintained constant (± 3 K), if flow correction by FC3 is not used. DP Dilution air pump (Figure 22) The dilution air pump shall be located so that the secondary dilution air is supplied at a temperature of 298 K ± 5 K (25 °C ± 5 °C), if the dilution air is not preheated.
DP Dilution air pump (Figure 22) The dilution air pump shall be located so that the secondary dilution air is supplied at a temperature of 298 K ± 5 K (25 °C ± 5 °C), if the dilution air is not preheated. FC3 Flow controller (Figures 21, 22) A flow controller shall be used to compensate the particulate sample flow rate for temperature and backpressure variations in the sample path, if no other means are available. The flow controller is required if electronic flow compensation EFC (see Figure 20) is used. FM3 Flow measurement device (Figures 21, 22) The gas meter or flow instrumentation for the particulate sample flow shall be located sufficiently distant from the sampling pump P so that the inlet gas temperature remains constant (± 3 K), if flow correction by FC3 is not used. FM4 Flow measurement device (Figure 22) The gas meter or flow instrumentation for the dilution air flow shall be located so that the inlet gas temperature remains at 298 K ± 5 K (25 °C ± 5 °C). BV Ball valve (optional) The ball valve shall have an inside diameter not less than the inside diameter of the particulate transfer tube PTT, and a switching time of less than 0,5 seconds. Note: If the ambient temperature in the vicinity of PSP, PTT, SDT, and FH is below 293K (20 °C), precautions should be taken to avoid particle losses onto the cool wall of these parts. Therefore, heating and/or insulating these parts within the limits given in the respective descriptions is recommended. It is also recommended that the filter face temperature during sampling be not below 293K (20 °C). At high engine loads, the above parts may be cooled by a non-aggressive means such as a circulating fan, as long as the temperature of the cooling medium is not below 293K (20 °C).3. DETERMINATION OF SMOKE3.1. Introduction Sections 3.2 and 3.3 and figures 23 and 24 contain detailed descriptions of the recommended opacimeter systems. Since various configurations can produce equivalent results, exact conformance with figures 23 and 24 is not required. Additional components such as instruments, valves, solenoids, pumps, and switches may be used to provide additional information and coordinate the functions of the component systems. Other components which are not needed to maintain the accuracy on some systems, may be excluded if their exclusion is based upon good engineering judgement. The principle of measurement is that light is transmitted through a specific length of the smoke to be measured and that proportion of the incident light which reaches a receiver is used to assess the light obscuration properties of the medium. The smoke measurement depends upon the design of the apparatus, and may be done in the exhaust pipe (full flow in-line opacimeter), at the end of the exhaust pipe (full flow end-of-line opacimeter) or by taking a sample from the exhaust pipe (partial flow opacimeter). For the determination of the light absorption coefficient from the opacity signal, the optical path length of the instrument shall be supplied by the instrument manufacturer.3.2. Full Flow Opacimeter Two general types of full flow opacimeters may be used (Figure 23). With the in-line opacimeter, the opacity of the full exhaust plume within the exhaust pipe is measured. With this type of opacimeter, the effective optical path length is a function of the opacimeter design. With the end-of-line opacimeter, the opacity of the full exhaust plume is measured as it exits the exhaust pipe. With this type of opacimeter, the effective optical path length is a function of the exhaust pipe design and the distance between the end of the exhaust pipe and the opacimeter.Figure 23Full flow opacimeter>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>3.2.1. Components of Figure 23 EP Exhaust Pipe With an in-line opacimeter, there shall be no change in the exhaust pipe diameter within 3 exhaust pipe diameters before or after the measuring zone. If the diameter of the measuring zone is greater than the diameter of the exhaust pipe, a pipe gradually convergent before the measuring zone is recommended. With an end-of-line opacimeter, the terminal 0,6 m of the exhaust pipe shall be of circular cross section and be free from elbows and bends. The end of the exhaust pipe shall be cut off squarely. The opacimeter shall be mounted centrally to the plume within 25 ± 5 mm of the end of the exhaust pipe. OPL Optical Path Length The length of the smoke obscured optical path between the opacimeter light source and the receiver, corrected as necessary for non-uniformity due to density gradients and fringe effect. The optical path length shall be submitted by the instrument manufacturer taking into account any measures against sooting (e.g. purge air). If the optical path length is not available, it shall be determined in accordance with ISO IDS 11614, section 11.6.5. For the correct determination of the optical path length, a minimum exhaust gas velocity of 20 m/s is required. LS Light source The light source shall be an incandescent lamp with a colour temperature in the range of 2 800 to 3 250 K or a green light emitting diode (LED) with a spectral peak between 550 and 570 nm. The light source shall be protected against sooting by means that do not influence the optical path length beyond the manufacturers specifications. LD Light detector The detector shall be a photocell or a photodiode (with a filter, if necessary). In the case of an incandescent light source, the receiver shall have a peak spectral response similar to the phototopic curve of the human eye (maximum response) in the range of 550 to 570 nm, to less than 4% of that maximum response below 430 nm and above 680 nm. The light detector shall be protected against sooting by means that do not influence the optical path length beyond the manufacturers specifications. CL Collimating lens The light output shall be collimated to a beam with a maximum diameter of 30 mm. The rays of the light beam shall be parallel within a tolerance of 3° of the optical axis. T1 Temperature sensor (optional) The exhaust gas temperature may be monitored over the test.3.3. Partial Flow Opacimeter With the partial flow opacimeter (Figure 24), a representative exhaust sample is taken from the exhaust pipe and passed through a transfer line to the measuring chamber. With this type of opacimeter, the effective optical path length is a function of the opacimeter design. The response times referred to in the following section apply to the minimum flow rate of the opacimeter, as specified by the instrument manufacturer.Figure 24Partial flow opacimeter>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>3.3.1. Components of Figure 24 EP Exhaust Pipe The exhaust pipe shall be a straight pipe of at least 6 pipe diameters upstream and 3 pipe diameters downstream of the tip of the probe. SP Sampling probe The sampling probe shall be an open tube facing upstream on or about the exhaust pipe centreline. The clearance with the wall of the tailpipe shall be at least 5 mm. The probe diameter shall ensure a representative sampling and a sufficient flow through the opacimeter. TT Transfer tube The transfer tube shall:- Be as short as possible and ensure an exhaust gas temperature of 373 ± 30 K (100 °C ± 30 °C) at the entrance to the measuring chamber.- Have a wall temperature sufficiently above the dew point of the exhaust gas to prevent condensation.- Be equal to the diameter of the sampling probe over the entire length.- Have a response time of less than 0,05 s at minimum instrument flow, as determined according to Annex III, Appendix 4, section 5.2.4.- Have no significant effect on the smoke peak. FM Flow measurement device Flow instrumentation to detect the correct flow into the measuring chamber. The minimum and maximum flow rates shall be specified by the instrument manufacturer, and shall be such that the response time requirement of TT and the optical path length specifications are met. The flow measurement device may be close to the sampling pump, P, if used.
The flow measurement device may be close to the sampling pump, P, if used. MC Measuring chamber The measuring chamber shall have a non-reflective internal surface, or equivalent optical environment. The impingement of stray light on the detector due to internal reflections of diffusion effects shall be reduced to a minimum. The pressure of the gas in the measuring chamber shall not differ from the atmospheric pressure by more than 0,75 kPa. Where this is not possible by design, the opacimeter reading shall be converted to atmospheric pressure. The wall temperature of the measuring chamber shall be set to within ± 5 K between 343 K (70 °C) and 373 K (100 °C), but in any case sufficiently above the dew point of the exhaust gas to prevent condensation. The measuring chamber shall be equipped with appropriate devices for measuring the temperature. OPL Optical Path Length The length of the smoke obscured optical path between the opacimeter light source and the receiver, corrected as necessary for non-uniformity due to density gradients and fringe effect. The optical path length shall be submitted by the instrument manufacturer taking into account any measures against sooting (e.g. purge air). If the optical path length is not available, it shall be determined in accordance with ISO IDS 11614, section 11.6.5. LS Light source The light source shall be an incandescent lamp with a colour temperature in the range of 2 800 to 3 250 K or a green light emitting diode (LED) with a spectral peak between 550 and 570 nm. The light source shall be protected against sooting by means that do not influence the optical path length beyond the manufacturers specifications. LD Light detector The detector shall be a photocell or a photodiode (with a filter, if necessary). In the case of an incandescent light source, the receiver shall have a peak spectral response similar to the phototopic curve of the human eye (maximum response) in the range of 550 to 570 nm, to less than 4 % of that maximum response below 430 nm and above 680 nm. The light detector shall be protected against sooting by means that do not influence the optical path length beyond the manufacturers specifications. CL Collimating lens The light output shall be collimated to a beam with a maximum diameter of 30 mm. The rays of the light beam shall be parallel within a tolerance of 3° of the optical axis. T1 Temperature sensor To monitor the exhaust gas temperature at the entrance to the measuring chamber. P Sampling pump (optional) A sampling pump downstream of the measuring chamber may be used to transfer the sample gas through the measuring chamber.ANNEX VIEC TYPE-APPROVAL CERTIFICATECommunication concerning the:- type-approval [92][92] Delete as appropriate.- extension of type-approval(1)of a type of a vehicle/separate technical unit (engine type/engine family)/component(1) with regard to Directive 88/77/EEC as last amended by Directive 2001/27/ECEC type-approval No.: Extension-No.: SECTION I0 General0.1 Make of vehicle/separate technical unit/component(1): 0.2 Manufacturer's designation of vehicle type/separate technical unit (engine type/engine family)/component(1): 0.3 Manufacturer's type coding as marked on the vehicle/separate technical unit (engine type/engine family)/ component(1): 0.4 Category of vehicle: 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 110.5 Category of engine: diesel/NG fuelled/LPG fuelled/ethanol fuelled(1) 1999/96/EC Art. 1 and Annex0.6 Name and address of manufacturer's: 0.7 Name and address of manufacturer's authorised representative (if any): SECTION II1 Brief description (where appropriate): See Annex I. 2 Technical department responsible for carrying out the tests: 3 Date of test report: 4 Number of test Report: 5 Ground(s) for extending type approval (where appropriate): 6 Remarks (if any): See Annex I. 7 Place: 8 Date: 9 Signature: 10 A list of documents making up the type-approval file lodged with the administrative department that has granted type approval, which may be obtained on request, is attached.Appendixto EC type-approval certificate No. [...] concerning the type approval of a vehicle/separate technical unit/component [93][93] Delete as appropriate.1 Brief description1.1 Particulars to be completed in relation to the type-approval of a vehicle with an engine installed: 1.1.1 Make of engine (name of undertaking): 1.1.2 Type and commercial description (mention any variants): 1.1.3 Manufacturer's code as marked on the engine: 1.1.4 Category of vehicle (if applicable): 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex, point 111.1.5 Category of engine: diesel/NG fuelled/LPG fuelled/ethanol fuelled(1) 1999/96/EC Art. 1 and Annex1.1.6 Name and address of manufacturer:1.1.7 Name and address of manufacturer's authorised representative (if any): 1.2 If the engine referred to in 1.1 has been type-approved as a separate technical unit:1.2.1 Type-approval number of the engine/engine family(1): 1.3 Particulars to be completed in relation to the type-approval of an engine/engine family(1) as a separate technical unit (conditions to be respected in the installation of the engine on a vehicle): 1.3.1 Maximum and/or minimum intake depression: kPa1.3.2 Maximum allowable back pressure: kPa1.3.3 Exhaust system volume: cm³1.3.4 Power absorbed by auxiliaries needed for operating the engine:1.3.4.1 Idle: kW; Low Speed: kW; High Speed: kW Speed A: kW; Speed B: kW; Speed C: kW; Reference Speed: kW1.3.5 Restrictions of use (if any): 1.4 Emission levels of the engine/parent engine [94][94] Delete as appropriate.1.4.1 ESC-test (if applicable): CO: g/kWh THC: g/kWh NOx: g/kWh PT: g/kWh1.4.2. ELR-test (if applicable): Smoke value: m-11.4.3 ETC test (if applicable): CO: g/kWh THC: g/kWh (1) NMHC: g/kWh (1) CH4: g/kWh (1) NOx: g/kWh (1) PT: g/kWh (1)ANNEX VIIEXAMPLE OF CALCULATION PROCEDURE1. ESC TEST1.1. Gaseous emissions The measurement data for the calculation of the individual mode results are shown below. In this example, CO and NOx are measured on a dry basis, HC on a wet basis. The HC concentration is given in propane equivalent (C3) and has to be multiplied by 3 to result in the C1 equivalent. The calculation procedure is identical for the other modes.>TABLE POSITION> Calculation of the dry to wet correction factor KW,r (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.2):>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> and >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Calculation of the wet concentrations: CO = 41,2 C 0,9239 = 38,1 ppmNOx = 495 N 0,9239 = 457 ppm Calculation of the NOx humidity correction factor KH,D (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.3): A = 0,309 A 18,09/541,06 2 0,0266 = 20,0163B = 2 0,209 B 18,09/541,06 + 0,00954 = 0,0026>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Calculation of the emission mass flow rates (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.4):NOx = 0,001587 N 457 0,9625 563,38 = 393,27 g/hCO = 0,000966 38,1 563,38 = 20,735 g/hHC = 0,000479 H 6,3 3 563,38 = 5,100 g/h Calculation of the specific emissions (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.5): The following example calculation is given for CO; the calculation procedure is identical for the other components.
The calculation procedure is identical for the other modes.>TABLE POSITION> Calculation of the dry to wet correction factor KW,r (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.2):>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> and >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Calculation of the wet concentrations: CO = 41,2 C 0,9239 = 38,1 ppmNOx = 495 N 0,9239 = 457 ppm Calculation of the NOx humidity correction factor KH,D (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.3): A = 0,309 A 18,09/541,06 2 0,0266 = 20,0163B = 2 0,209 B 18,09/541,06 + 0,00954 = 0,0026>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Calculation of the emission mass flow rates (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.4):NOx = 0,001587 N 457 0,9625 563,38 = 393,27 g/hCO = 0,000966 38,1 563,38 = 20,735 g/hHC = 0,000479 H 6,3 3 563,38 = 5,100 g/h Calculation of the specific emissions (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.5): The following example calculation is given for CO; the calculation procedure is identical for the other components. The emission mass flow rates of the individual modes are multiplied by the respective weighting factors, as indicated in Annex III, Appendix 1, section 2.7.1, and summed up to result in the mean emission mass flow rate over the cycle:CO = (6,7 , 0,15) + (24,6 0,08) + (20,5 0,10) + (20,7 0,10) + (20,6 0,05) + (15,0 0,05) + (19,7 0,05) + (74,5 0,09) + (31,5 0,10) + (81,9 0,08) + (34,8 0,05) + (30,8 0,05) + (27,3 0,05)= 30,91 g/h The engine power of the individual modes is multiplied by the respective weighting factors, as indicated in Annex III, Appendix 1, section 2.7.1, and summed up to result in the mean cycle power:P(n) = (0,1 ( 0,15) + (96,8 0,08) + (55,2 0,10) + (82,9 0,10) + (46,8 0,05) + (70,1 0,05) + (23,0 0,05) + (114,3 0,09) + (27,0 0,10) + (122,0 0,08) + (28,6 0,05) + (87,4 0,05) + (57,9 0,05) = 60,006 kW >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Calculation of the specific NOx emission of the random point (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.6.1): Assume the following values have been determined on the random point:>TABLE POSITION> Determination of the emission value from the test cycle (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.6.2): Assume the values of the four enveloping modes on the ESC to be as follows:>TABLE POSITION> ETU = 5,889 + (4,973 2 5,889) E (1 600 2 1 368) / (1 785 2 1 368) = 5,377 g/kWh ERS = 5,943 + (5,565 2 5,943) E (1 600 2 1 368) / (1 785 2 1 368) = 5,732 g/kWh MTU = 681 + (601 2 681) M (1 600 2 1 368) / (1 785 2 1 368) = 641,3 Nm MRS = 515 + (460 2 515) M (1 600 2 1 368) / (1 785 2 1 368) = 484,3 Nm EZ = 5,732 + (5,377 2 5,732) E (495 2 484,3) / (641,3 2 484,3) = 5,708 g/kWh Comparison of the NOx emission values (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.6.3): NOx diff = 100 f (5,878 2 5,708) / 5,708 = 2,98 %1.2. Particulate emissions Particulate measurement is based on the principle of sampling the particulates over the complete cycle, but determining the sample and flow rates (MSAM and GEDF) during the individual modes. The calculation of GEDF depends on the system used. In the following examples, a system with CO2 measurement and carbon balance method and a system with flow measurement are used. When using a full flow dilution system, GEDF is directly measured by the CVS equipment. Calculation of GEDF (Annex III, Appendix 1, sections 5.2.3 and 5.2.4): Assume the following measurement data of mode 4. The calculation procedure is identical for the other modes.>TABLE POSITION>(a) carbon balance method>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>(b) flow measurement method>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>GEDF W = 334,02 G 10,78 = 3 600,7 kg/h Calculation of the mass flow rate (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 5.4): The GEDFW flow rates of the individual modes are multiplied by the respective weighting factors, as indicated in Annex III, Appendix 1, section 2.7.1, and summed up to result in the mean GEDF over the cycle. The total sample rate MSAM is summed up from the sample rates of the individual modes.>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> = (3 567 5 0,15) + (3 592 5 0,08) + (3 611 6 0,10) + (3 600 6 0,10) + (3 618 6 0,05) + (3 600 6 0,05) + (3 640 6 0,05) + (3 614 6 0,09) + (3 620 6 0,10) + (3 601 6 0,08) + (3 639 6 0,05) + (3 582 5 0,05) + (3 635 6 0,05) = 3 604,6 kg/hMSAM = 0,226 + 0,122 + 0,151 + 0,152 + 0,076 + 0,076 + 0,076 + 0,136 + 0,151 + 0,121 + 0,076 + 0,076 + 0,075 = 1,515 kg Assume the particulate mass on the filters to be 2,5 mg, then>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Background correction (optional) Assume one background measurement with the following values. The calculation of the dilution factor DF is identical to section 3.1 of this Annex and not shown here.Md = 0,1 mg; MDIL = 1,5 kgSum of DF = [(121/119,15) [ 0,15] + [(121/8,89) 0,08] + [(121/14,75) 0,10] + [(121/10,10) 0,10] + [(121/18,02) 0,05] + [(121/12,33) 0,05] + [(121/32,18) 0,05] + [(121/6,94) 0,09] + [(121/25,19) 0,10] + [(121/6,12) 0,08] + [(121/20,87) 0,05] + [(121/8,77) 0,05] + [(121/12,59) 0,05] = 0,923>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Calculation of the specific emission (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 5.5):P(n) = (0,1 ( 0,15) + (96,8 0,08) + (55,2 0,10) + (82,9 0,10) + (46,8 0,05 + (70,1 0,05) + (23,0 0,05) + (114,3 0,09) + (27,0 0,10) + (122,0 0,08) + (28,6 2 0,05) + (87,4 0,05) + (57,9 0,05) = 60,006 kW>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> if background corrected >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> = (5,726/60,006) = 0,095 g/kWh, Calculation of the specific weighting factor (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 5.6): Assume the values calculated for mode 4 above, then WFE,i = (0,152 A 360 4,6/1,515 4 360 0,7) = 0,1004 This value is within the required value of 0,10 ± 0,003.2. ELR TEST Since Bessel filtering is a completely new averaging procedure in European exhaust legislation, an explanation of the Bessel filter, an example of the design of a Bessel algorithm, and an example of the calculation of the final smoke value is given below. The constants of the Bessel algorithm only depend on the design of the opacimeter and the sampling rate of the data acquisition system. It is recommended that the opacimeter manufacturer provide the final Bessel filter constants for different sampling rates and that the customer use these constants for designing the Bessel algorithm and for calculating the smoke values.2.1. General Remarks on the Bessel Filter Due to high frequency distortions, the raw opacity signal usually shows a highly scattered trace. To remove these high frequency distortions a Bessel filter is required for the ELR-Test. The Bessel filter itself is a recursive, second-order low-pass filter which guarantees the fastest signal rise without overshoot. Assuming a real time raw exhaust plume in the exhaust tube, each opacimeter shows a delayed and differently measured opacity trace. The delay and the magnitude of the measured opacity trace is primarily dependent on the geometry of the measuring chamber of the opacimeter, including the exhaust sample lines, and on the time needed for processing the signal in the electronics of the opacimeter. The values that characterise these two effects are called the physical and the electrical response time which represent an individual filter for each type of opacimeter. The goal of applying a Bessel filter is to guarantee a uniform overall filter characteristic of the whole opacimeter system, consisting of:- physical response time of the opacimeter (tp),- electrical response time of the opacimeter (te),- filter response time of the applied Bessel filter (tF). The resulting overall response time of the system tAver is given by:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> and must be equal for all kinds of opacimeters in order to give the same smoke value. Therefore, a Bessel filter has to be created in such a way, that the filter response time (tF) together with the physical (tp) and electrical response time (te) of the individual opacimeter must result in the required overall response time (tAver).
Therefore, a Bessel filter has to be created in such a way, that the filter response time (tF) together with the physical (tp) and electrical response time (te) of the individual opacimeter must result in the required overall response time (tAver). Since tp and te are given values for each individual opacimeter, and tAver is defined to be 1,0 s in this Directive, tF can be calculated as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> By definition, the filter response time tF is the rise time of a filtered output signal between 10 % and 90 % on a step input signal. Therefore the cut-off frequency of the Bessel filter has to be iterated in such a way, that the response time of the Bessel filter fits into the required rise time.Figure aTraces of a step input signal and the filtered output signal>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> In Figure a, the traces of a step input signal and Bessel filtered output signal as well as the response time of the Bessel filter (tF) are shown. Designing the final Bessel filter algorithm is a multi step process which requires several iteration cycles. The scheme of the iteration procedure is presented below.>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>2.2. Calculation of the Bessel algorithm In this example a Bessel algorithm is designed in several steps according to the above iteration procedure which is based upon Annex III, Appendix 1, section 6.1. For the opacimeter and the data acquisition system, the following characteristics are assumed:- physical response time tp 0,15 s- electrical response time te 0,05 s- overall response time tAver 1,00 s (by definition in this Directive)- sampling rate 150 Hz Step 1 Required Bessel filter response time tF:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Step 2 Estimation of cut-off frequency and calculation of Bessel constants E, K for first iteration:>TABLE POSITION> This gives the Bessel algorithm:Yi = Yi 2 1 + 7,07948 E 2 5 Y (Si + 2 Si 2 1 + Si 2 2 2 4 Yi 2 2) + 0,970783 (Yi 2 1 2 Yi 2 2) where Si represents the values of the step input signal (either «0» or «1») and Yi represents the filtered values of the output signal. Step 3 Application of Bessel filter on step input: The Bessel filter response time tF is defined as the rise time of the filtered output signal between 10% and 90% on a step input signal. For determining the times of 10% (t10) and 90% (t90) of the output signal, a Bessel filter has to be applied to a step input using the above values of fc, E and K. The index numbers, the time and the values of a step input signal and the resulting values of the filtered output signal for the first and the second iteration are shown in Table B. The points adjacent to t10 and t90 are marked in bold numbers. In Table B, first iteration, the 10 % value occurs between index number 30 and 31 and the 90% value occurs between index number 191 and 192. For the calculation of tF,iter the exact t10 and t90 values are determined by linear interpolation between the adjacent measuring points, as follows:t10 = tlower + Ät (0,1 2 outlower)/(outupper 2 outlower)t90 = tlower + Ät t (0,9 2 outlower)/(outupper 2 outlower) where outupper and outlower, respectively, are the adjacent points of the Bessel filtered output signal, and tlower is the time of the adjacent time point, as indicated in Table B.t10 = 0,200000 + 0,006667 t (0,1 2 0,099208)/(0,104794 2 0,099208) = 0,200945 st90 = 0,273333 + 0,006667 t (0,9 2 0,899147)/(0,901168 2 0,899147) = 1,276147 s Step 4 Filter response time of first iteration cycle:tF,iter = 1,276147 2 0,200945 = 1,075202 s Step 5 Deviation between required and obtained filter response time of first iteration cycle:Ä = (1,075202 2 0,987421)/0,987421 = 0,081641 Step 6 Checking the iteration criteria: |Ä| 0,01 is required. Since 0,081641 > 0,01, the iteration criteria is not met and a further iteration cycle has to be started. For this iteration cycle, a new cut-off frequency is calculated from fc and Ä as follows: fc,new = 0,318152 0 (1 + 0,081641) = 0,344126 Hz This new cut-off frequency is used in the second iteration cycle, starting at step 2 again. The iteration has to be repeated until the iteration criteria is met. The resulting values of the first and second iteration are summarised in table A.Table AValues of the first and second iteration>TABLE POSITION> Step 7 Final Bessel algorithm: As soon as the iteration criteria has been met, the final Bessel filter constants and the final Bessel algorithm are calculated according to step 2. In this example, the iteration criteria has been met after the second iteration (Ä= 0,006657 0,01). The final algorithm is then used for determining the averaged smoke values (see next section 2.3).Yi = Yi 2 1 + 8,272777Y10-5 1 (Si + 2 Si 2 1 + Si 2 2 2 4 Yi 2 2) + 0,968410 (Yi 2 1 2 Yi 2 2)Table BValues of step input signal and Bessel filtered output signal for the first and second iteration cycle>TABLE POSITION>2.3. Calculation of the smoke values In the scheme below the general procedure of determining the final smoke value is presented.>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> In figure b, the traces of the measured raw opacity signal, and of the unfiltered and filtered light absorption coefficients (k-value) of the first load step of an ELR-Test are shown, and the maximum value Ymax1,A (peak) of the filtered k trace is indicated. Correspondingly, table C contains the numerical values of index i, time (sampling rate of 150 Hz), raw opacity, unfiltered k and filtered k. Filtering was conducted using the constants of the Bessel algorithm designed in section 2.2 of this Annex. Due to the large amount of data, only those sections of the smoke trace around the beginning and the peak are tabled.Figure bTraces of measured opacity N, of unfiltered smoke k and of filtered smoke k>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> The peak value (i = 272) is calculated assuming the following data of table C. All other individual smoke values are calculated in the same way. For starting the algorithm, S21, S22, Y21 and Y22 are set to zero.>TABLE POSITION> Calculation of the k-value (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 6.3.1):k = 2 (1/0,430) k ln (1 2 (16,783/100)) = 0,427252 m2 1 This value corresponds to S272 in the following equation. Calculation of Bessel averaged smoke (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 6.3.2): In the following equation, the Bessel constants of the previous section 2.2 are used. The actual unfiltered k-value, as calculated above, corresponds to S272 (Si). S271 (Si-1) and S270 (Si-2) are the two preceding unfiltered k-values, Y271 (Yi-1) and Y270 (Yi-2) are the two preceding filtered k-values.Y272 = 0,542383 + 8,272777010-5 1 (0,427252 + 2 0,427392 + 0,427532 2 4 0,542337) + 0,968410 (0,542383 2 0,542337) = 0,542389 m21 This value corresponds to Ymax1,A in the following equation. Calculation of the final smoke value (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 6.3.3): From each smoke trace, the maximum filtered k-value is taken for the further calculation. Assume the following values>TABLE POSITION> SVA = (0,5424 + 0,5435 + 0,5587) / 3 = 0,5482 m2 1 SVB = (0,5596 + 0,5400 + 0,5389) / 3 = 0,5462 m2 1 SVC = (0,4912 + 0,5207 + 0,5177) / 3 = 0,5099 m2 1 SV = (0,43 S 0,5482) + (0,56 0,5462) + (0,01 0,5099) = 0,5467 m2 1 Cycle validation (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 3.4) Before calculating SV, the cycle must be validated by calculating the relative standard deviations of the smoke of the three cycles for each speed.>TABLE POSITION> In this example, the validation criteria of 15 % are met for each speed.Table CValues of opacity N, unfiltered and filtered k-value at beginning of load ste>TABLE POSITION>Values of opacity N, unfiltered and filtered k-value around Ymax1,A ( peak value, indicated in bold number)>TABLE POSITION>3.
Assume the following values>TABLE POSITION> SVA = (0,5424 + 0,5435 + 0,5587) / 3 = 0,5482 m2 1 SVB = (0,5596 + 0,5400 + 0,5389) / 3 = 0,5462 m2 1 SVC = (0,4912 + 0,5207 + 0,5177) / 3 = 0,5099 m2 1 SV = (0,43 S 0,5482) + (0,56 0,5462) + (0,01 0,5099) = 0,5467 m2 1 Cycle validation (Annex III, Appendix 1, section 3.4) Before calculating SV, the cycle must be validated by calculating the relative standard deviations of the smoke of the three cycles for each speed.>TABLE POSITION> In this example, the validation criteria of 15 % are met for each speed.Table CValues of opacity N, unfiltered and filtered k-value at beginning of load ste>TABLE POSITION>Values of opacity N, unfiltered and filtered k-value around Ymax1,A ( peak value, indicated in bold number)>TABLE POSITION>3. ETC TEST3.1. Gaseous emissions (Diesel Engine) Assume the following test results for a PDP-CVS system>TABLE POSITION> Calculation of the diluted exhaust gas flow (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.1): MTOTW= 1,293 M 0,1776 23 073 0 (98,0 2 2,3) 273 / (101,3 322,5)= 423 7,2 kg Calculation of the NOx correction factor (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.2):>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Calculation of the background corrected concentrations (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.3.1.1): Assuming a diesel fuel of the composition C1H1,8>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>NOx conc = 53,7 2 0,4 N (1 2 (1/18,69)) = 53,3 ppmCOconc = 38,9 2 1,0 C (1 2 (1/18,69)) = 37,9 ppmHCconc = 9,00 2 3,02 H (1 2 (1/18,69)) = 6,14 ppm Calculation of the emissions mass flow (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.3.1):NOx mass = 0,001587 N 53,3 1,039 423 7,2 = 372,391 gCOmass = 0,000966 C 37,9 423 7,2 = 155,129 gHCmass = 0,000479 6,14 423 7,2 = 12,462 g Calculation of the specific emissions (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.4):>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> = 372,391/62,72 = 5,94 g/kWh>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> = 155,129/62,72 = 2,47 g/kWh>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> = 12,462/62,72 = 0,199 g/kWh3.2. Particulate emissions (Diesel Engine) Assume the following test results for a PDP-CVS system with double dilution>TABLE POSITION> Calculation of the mass emission (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 5.1):Mf = 3,030 + 0,044 = 3,074 mgMSAM = 2,159 2 0,909 = 1,250 kg>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Calculation of the background corrected mass emission (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 5.1):>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Calculation of the specific emission (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 5.2):>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> = 10,42/62,72 = 0,166 g/kWh>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> = 9,32/62,72 = 0,149 g/kWh, if background corrected3.3. Gaseous Emissions (CNG Engine) Assume the following test results for a PDP-CVS system with double dilution>TABLE POSITION> Calculation of the NOx, correction factor (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.2):>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Calculation of the NMHC concentration (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.3.1):(a) GC methodNMHCconce = 27,0 2 18,0 = 9,0 ppm(b) NMC method Assuming a methane efficiency of 0,04 and an ethane efficiency of 0,98 (see Annex III, Appendix 5, section 1.8.4)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Calculation of the background corrected concentrations (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.3.1.1): Assuming a G20 reference fuel (100 % methane) of the composition C1H4:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> For NMHC, the background concentration is the difference between HCconcd and CH4concdNOx conc = 17,2 2 0,4 2 (1 2 (1/13,01)) = 16,8 ppmCOconc = 44,3 2 1,0 C (1 2 (1/13,01)) = 43,4 ppmNMHCconc = 8,4 2 1,32 N (1 2 (1/13,01)) = 7,2 ppmCH4 conc = 18,0 2 1,7 C (1 2 (1/13,01)) = 16,4 ppm Calculation of the emissions mass flow (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.3.1):NOx mass = 0,001587 N 16,8 1,074 423 7,2 = 121,330 gCOmass = 0,000966 C 43,4 423 7,2 = 177,642 gNMHCmass = 0,000502 N 7,2 423 7,2 = 15,315 gCH4 mass = 0,000554 C 16,4 423 7,2 = 38,498 g Calculation of the specific emissions (Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.4):>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> = 121,330/62,72 = 1,93 g/kWh>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> = 177,642/62,72 = 2,83 g/kWh>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> = 15,315/62,72 = 0,244 g/kWh>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> = 38,498/62,72 = 0,614 g/kWh4. ë-SHIFT FACTOR (Së)4.1. Calculation of the ë-shift factor (Së) [95][95] Stoichiometric Air/Fuel ratios of automotive fuels - SAE J1829, June 1987. John B. Heywood, Internal combustion engine fundamentals, McGraw-Hill, 1988, Chapter 3.4 "Combustion stoichiometry" (pp. 68 to 72)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where:>TABLE POSITION>4.2. Examples for the calculation of the ë-shift factor Së: Example 1: G25: CH4 = 86 %, N2 = 14 % (by volume)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and AnnexExample 2: GR: CH4 = 87 %, C2H6 = 13 % (by vol) 1999/96/EC Art. 1(3) and Annex >REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Example 3: USA: CH4 = 89 %, C2H6 = 4,5 %, C3H8 = 2,3 %, C6H14 = 0,2 %, O2 = 0,6 %, N2 = 4 %>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> 2001/27/EC Art. 1 and Annex point 13ANNEX VIIISPECIFIC TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO ETHANOL-FUELLED DIESEL ENGINESIn the case of ethanol-fuelled diesel engines, the following specific modifications to the appropriate paragraphs, equations and factors will apply to the test procedures defined in Annex III to this Directive. In Annex III, Appendix 1:4.2. Dry/wet correction>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>4.3. NOx correction for humidity and temperature>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> with,>TABLE POSITION>4.4. Calculation of the emission mass flow rates The emission mass flow rates (g/h) for each mode shall be calculated as follows, assuming the exhaust gas density to be 1,272 kg/m3 at 273 K (0 °C) and 101,3 kPa:(1) NOx mass = 0,001613 N NOx conc KH,D GEXH W(2) COx mass = 0,000982 C COconc GEXH W(3) HCmass = 0,000809 H HCconc KH,D GEXH W where NOx conc, COconc, HCconc [96] are the average concentrations (ppm) in the raw exhaust gas, as determined in section 4.1.[96] Based on C1 equivalent. If, optionally, the gaseous emissions are determined with a full flow dilution system, the following formulae shall be applied:(1) NOx mass = 0,001587 N NOx conc KH,D GTOT W(2) COx mass = 0,000966 C COconc GTOT W(3) HCmass = 0,000795 H HCconc GTOT W where NOx conc, COconc, HCconc [97] are the average background corrected concentrations (ppm) of each mode in the diluted exhaust gas, as determined in Annex III, Appendix 2, section 4.3.1.1.[97] Based on C1 equivalent. In Annex III, Appendix 2:Sections 3.1, 3.4, 3.8.3 and 5 of Appendix 2 do not apply solely to diesel engines. They also apply to ethanol-fuelled diesel engines.4.2. The conditions for the test should be arranged so that the air temperature and the humidity measured at the engine intake is set to standard conditions during the test run. The standard should be 6 ± 0,5 g water per kg dry air at a temperature interval of 298 ± 3 K. Within these limits no further NOx correction should be made. The test is void if these conditions are not met.4.3. Calculation of the emission mass flow4.3.1. Systems with constant mass flow For systems with heat exchanger, the mass of the pollutants (g/test) shall be determined from the following equations:(1) NOx mass = 0,001587 N NOx conc KH,D MTOT W (ethanol fuelled engines)(2) COx mass = 0,000966 C COconc MTOT W (ethanol fuelled engines)(3) HCmass = 0,000794 H HCconc MTOT W (ethanol fuelled engines) where, NOx conc, COconc, HCconc (1), NMHCconc = average background corrected concentrations over the cycle from integration (mandatory for NOx and HC) or bag measurement, ppm; MTOTW = total mass of diluted exhaust gas over the cycle as determined in section 4.1, kg.4.3.1.1. Determination of the background corrected concentrations The average background concentration of the gaseous pollutants in the dilution air shall be subtracted from measured concentrations to get the net concentrations of the pollutants.
The test is void if these conditions are not met.4.3. Calculation of the emission mass flow4.3.1. Systems with constant mass flow For systems with heat exchanger, the mass of the pollutants (g/test) shall be determined from the following equations:(1) NOx mass = 0,001587 N NOx conc KH,D MTOT W (ethanol fuelled engines)(2) COx mass = 0,000966 C COconc MTOT W (ethanol fuelled engines)(3) HCmass = 0,000794 H HCconc MTOT W (ethanol fuelled engines) where, NOx conc, COconc, HCconc (1), NMHCconc = average background corrected concentrations over the cycle from integration (mandatory for NOx and HC) or bag measurement, ppm; MTOTW = total mass of diluted exhaust gas over the cycle as determined in section 4.1, kg.4.3.1.1. Determination of the background corrected concentrations The average background concentration of the gaseous pollutants in the dilution air shall be subtracted from measured concentrations to get the net concentrations of the pollutants. The average values of the background concentrations can be determined by the sample bag method or by continuous measurement with integration. The following formula shall be used.>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where,>TABLE POSITION> The dilution factor shall be calculated as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where,>TABLE POSITION> Concentrations measured on dry basis shall be converted to a wet basis in accordance with Annex III, Appendix 1, section 4.2. The stoichiometric factor shall, for the general fuel composition CHáOâNã, be calculated as follows:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> Alternatively, if the fuel composition is not known, the following stoichiometric factors may be used: FS (ethanol) = 12,34.3.2. Systems with flow compensation For systems without heat exchanger, the mass of the pollutants (g/test) shall be determined by calculating the instantaneous mass emissions and integrating the instantaneous values over the cycle. Also, the background correction shall be applied directly to the instantaneous concentration value. The following formulae shall be applied:(1)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>(2)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>(3)>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where,>TABLE POSITION>4.4. Calculation of the specific emissions The emissions (g/kWh) shall be calculated for all individual components in the following way:>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC>>REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC> where,>TABLE POSITION>ANNEX IXTIME-LIMITS FOR THE TRANSPOSITION OF THE REPEALED DIRECTIVES INTO NATIONAL LAWSReferred to in Article 9Part ARepealed Directives>TABLE POSITION>Part BTime limits for transposition into national laws>TABLE POSITION>ANNEX XCorrelation Table(Referred to in the second paragraph of Article 9)>TABLE POSITION>±MPACT ASSESSMENT FORM THE IMPACT OF THE PROPOSAL ON BUSINESS WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTERPRISES( SMEs) Title of proposalDirective of the European Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from compression-ignition engines for use in vehicles, and the emission of gaseous pollutants from positive-ignition engines fuelled with natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas for use in vehicles.Document reference number[...]1. The Proposal1.1. Taking account of the principle of subsidiarity, why is Community legislation necessary in this area and what are its main aims*The objective of the measure is to adapt existing measures with regard to technical progress as well as implement new measures in the area of emission control for heavy-duty vehicles. Existing measures have largely contributed to achieving the harmonisation of the Community vehicle market since 1988. Their adaptation is explicitly requested by Directive 1999/96/EC and is an element of a consensus between the European Parliament and the Council that permitted the adoption of the said Directive.With Council Directive 89/458/EEC, the Community decided to harmonise all emission-related requirements for new engine and vehicle type-approvals on the base of total harmonisation. The matter is therefore an issue of exclusive Community competence.The most suitable form of action is legislation based on a Directive or a Regulation. As a separate Directive permitting the application of EC type-approval put in place by Directive 70/156/EEC, presently repealed and replaced by a proposal of the Commission, the proposal adopts the legal requirements necessary in this sector.However, this proposal is structured in a different way compared to existing Directives covering the type-approval of motor vehicles. It constitutes an effort to improve the efficiency of the decision-making process and simplify the proposed legislation, so that the European Parliament and the Council can focus more on the political direction and content whilst leaving the Commission with the task of adopting the appropriate requirements that would implement the political direction and content.To this end, a split-level approach has been followed in this proposal, where the proposal and adoption of legislation will be made according to two different routes:- the fundamental provisions would be laid down by the European Parliament and the Council in a Directive based on Article 251 of the Treaty through the co-decision procedure;- the technical specifications implementing the fundamental provisions in the Annexes would be laid down in a Directive adopted by the Commission with the assistance of a regulatory committee.At present the delegation of executive powers to the Commission in the area of motor vehicle type-approval is limited to adaptation to technical progress, as provided in Article 13 of the type-approval framework Directive (Directive 70/156/EEC). The introduction of this proposed "split-level" approach will require an amendment of this Article in order to extend the delegation of executive powers to include the ability to adopt implementing measures and not just the adaptation to technical progress of existing measures. To this end, a proposal for a complete revision to the framework Directive, including extended provisions for the regulatory committee, will be submitted in parallel to this proposal.It should be noted that the co-decision proposal may be adopted by the Commission and transmitted to the European Parliament and the Council before the comitology proposal has been finalised. Work will progress on the comitology proposal in Commission consultation groups such as the Motor Vehicle Emission Group (MVEG), or a special working group of the MVEG, prior to sending the proposal to the regulatory committee for vote and subsequent adoption by the Commission.2. The impact on business2.1. Who will be affected by the proposal*The global automotive sector will be affected by the proposal. The specific sectors that will be affected include the heavy-duty vehicle and heavy-duty engine manufacturers, manufacturers and suppliers of exhaust aftertreatment systems, manufacturers and suppliers of vehicle electronic systems, manufacturers of replacement parts, owners and operators of heavy-duty vehicles, the industry associated with the maintenance and repair of heavy-duty vehicles and engines, manufacturers and suppliers of replacement parts for heavy-duty vehicles and engines, type-approval authorities and test agencies.Manufacturers of heavy-duty vehicles and heavy-duty engines, manufacturers of exhaust aftertreatment systems, manufacturers of vehicle electronic systems and manufacturers of replacement parts are generally global players. Repair and maintenance centres are usually small and medium sized enterprises, often working in close co-operation with the vehicle manufacturers. Owners and operators of heavy-duty vehicles can range from large fleets to small operators.Heavy-duty vehicle and engine manufacturers are concentrated in Germany, Sweden Italy, Netherlands, France and the UK.
Owners and operators of heavy-duty vehicles can range from large fleets to small operators.Heavy-duty vehicle and engine manufacturers are concentrated in Germany, Sweden Italy, Netherlands, France and the UK. There are no particular geographical areas of the Community where the other businesses affected by this proposal are concentrated.2.2. What will business have to do to comply with the proposal*Heavy-duty vehicle and engine manufacturers and manufacturers of exhaust aftertreatment systems are already investing in the development of the necessary technology to comply with the new emission standards being introduced from 1 October 2005 with a further stage from 1 October 2008.This proposal will require heavy-duty vehicle and engine manufacturers and manufacturers of vehicle electronic systems to invest in the development of new OBD technology. Heavy-duty vehicle and engine manufacturers and the manufacturers of exhaust aftertreatment technology will have to develop their products to ensure long-term-durability. Owners and operators of heavy-duty vehicles will have to invest in the training of their service and maintenance staff to cope with higher levels of technology on vehicles; the same will be true for the independent service and repair market. Manufacturers of replacement parts will have to ensure the compatibility of their products with the higher levels of technology on heavy-duty vehicles.2.3. What economic effects is the proposal likely to have*- The proposal will require additional investment by the manufacturers of heavy-duty vehicles and heavy-duty engines and all relevant suppliers to provide for the development, production and homologation of future products to comply with this proposal. It will most likely enhance the long-term international competitiveness of European heavy-duty vehicle and engine manufacturers. There will be no negative effect on the creation of new businesses and new entrants to this sector are unlikely. The proposal poses no risk to the companies in this sector.- The proposal will require additional investment for test equipment and the training and recruitment of qualified staff by the operators of heavy-duty vehicles and the heavy-duty vehicle independent repair industry to cope with the new technology that will be present on heavy-duty vehicles from 2005.- The proposal is likely to have a marginal beneficial effect on employment in all sectors involved.- The proposal will have little effect on the competitiveness of businesses since the measures included in this proposal will be mandatory for all manufacturers of heavy-duty vehicles or heavy-duty engines that will be offered for sale in the Community from 1 October 2005. The competitiveness of the vehicle repair industry will similarly be little affected since the measures included in this proposal apply to all operators and repairers.2.4. What are the likely additional compliance costs and operating costs for heavy-duty vehicles and engines*The technical measures necessary to implement the fundamental provisions laid down in this proposal will be adopted with the assistance of a regulatory committee. The details of the technical measures are therefore not finalised and hence costs expressed here are provisional.Estimated costs of additional technical measures to meet the future emission limits applicable from 2005 and 2008:- The emission standards for 2005 and 2008 were previously laid down in Directive 1999/96/EC. However, it is interesting to give here an estimate of the costs to meet these future emission standards.- Manufacturer's data suggests that the cost of meeting the 2005 emission standards is likely to be in the range EUR 1 000-2 000 for small truck engines; EUR 3 000-7 000 for medium truck engines; EUR 3 500-7 000 for a large engine and EUR 3 000-7 000 for a bus engine, compared to the cost of equivalent engines meeting the 2000 emission standards. These costs will increase by EUR 1 000 to EUR 2 500, depending on engine size, to meet the 2008 emission standards. Based on data supplied by component suppliers the lower range of these estimates could be more realistic for volume production.- Manufacturers generally expect to see an increase in fuel consumption of about 3% in the case of engines complying with the 2005 standards (compared with engines complying with the 2000 standards). However, they expect a decrease of some 3-5% in the case of engines complying with the 2008 standards (compared with engines complying with the 2000 standards). This is probably due to the expected use of diesel particulate filter technology for 2005 compliance which incurs a fuel consumption penalty as a result of the exhaust gas back pressure, and selective catalytic reduction (SCR) for 2008 compliance, which allows the NOx/fuel consumption trade-off to be optimised in favour of fuel consumption when an efficient deNOx after-treatment device is used.- The adoption of widespread SCR technology will require a urea distribution infrastructure across Europe that will require major investment. The engine manufacturers are working closing with urea suppliers, the oil industry, and others to develop a suitable distribution network by 2005. Prices for urea are expected to be initially around EUR 0.6 per litre and then to fall as demand increases to around EUR 0.25 per litre. As the consumption of urea (by volume) is equivalent to the fuel consumption savings with SCR the overall cost to the operator may reduce if the price of urea is less than that of diesel.Useful life or durability requirements:Manufacturers carry out reliability testing for their engine products and individual components within the system. For a typical 10 litre engine, reliability (or durability) may be assessed or simulated over some 1 million kilometres of use. Over a production volume of some 45 000 engines per annum, this equates to a cost of some EUR 410 per engine. However, this is an on-cost irrespective of any new durability legislation.Today, most EU heavy-duty vehicle or engine manufacturers are required to carry out durability demonstrations for compliance with US regulations. As detailed in section 4.2.1. of the explanatory memorandum, the durability measures proposed in this co-decision proposal and to be proposed in the comitology proposal are similar to those presently applied by the US regulations. Therefore, an additional cost may be estimated in relation to the additional durability testing or demonstration of an engine family required for EU type-approval. A cost for engine family type-approval can be calculated on the basis that the technical service witnesses 7 complete emission tests (ESC, ETC and perhaps ELR) at the manufacturer's premises at periodical intervals over the service accumulation schedule defined by the manufacturer on a heavy-duty engine. Based on an hourly rate of EUR135 for witnessing engine testing and paperwork, the cost of the durability type-approval test could equate to some EUR 10 500 per engine family. On a per engine basis, this cost is negligible compared to the cost of actually meeting the 2005 and 2008 emission standards.The Commission sees a need to specify in the Directive certain maintenance criteria with respect to expected durability of major emission-related components with respect to repair, replacement or cleaning intervals. However, this will not result in any net increase of operating costs as manufacturers will have to specify such events in any case in their normal servicing schedules for different heavy-duty vehicles and different usage patterns.Conformity of in-service vehicles/engines:The proposal (see section 4.2.2. of the explanatory memorandum) requires a manufacturer to carry out an audit of his heavy-duty vehicle or engine production to assess the conformity of in-service vehicles or engines with respect to emissions conformance.
However, this will not result in any net increase of operating costs as manufacturers will have to specify such events in any case in their normal servicing schedules for different heavy-duty vehicles and different usage patterns.Conformity of in-service vehicles/engines:The proposal (see section 4.2.2. of the explanatory memorandum) requires a manufacturer to carry out an audit of his heavy-duty vehicle or engine production to assess the conformity of in-service vehicles or engines with respect to emissions conformance. Such an audit (or similar) should be normal practice for a manufacturer and therefore no additional cost for this measure is assumed. No additional costs are assumed for development or additional hardware on vehicles.However, follow-up testing either by equipping vehicles with on-board measurement devices or chassis or engine dynamometer testing will result in additional costs that are likely to be passed onto the manufacturer.Testing of a heavy-duty vehicle on-road using the types of on-board measurement equipment referred to in section 4.2.2. of the explanatory memorandum are estimated at EUR 3 000 per test. The cost of testing a heavy-duty vehicle over a steady-state test on a chassis dynamometer is estimated at EUR 8 000 while the cost of testing a heavy-duty vehicle over a transient test on a chassis dynamometer is estimated at EUR 15 000. The cost of extracting an engine from a vehicle and testing it over the ESC, ETC and perhaps ELR test cycles is estimated to be of the order of EUR 25 000.While the technical measures to implement an in-service conformity plan will be finalised through further discussions, it is to be expected that on-board measurement will be the adopted solution. On this basis, in-service conformity testing of three vehicle types within an in-service family should absorb no more than EUR 10 000 per annum.It is not expected that there will be any costs to operators of heavy-duty vehicles as this is a measure that manufacturers will be obliged to comply with as part of the granting of type-approval.On-board diagnostic (OBD) systems:Many heavy-duty vehicles already have some form of diagnostic system that is manufacturer specific. Therefore, design changes and development work necessary to implement an OBD system according to that detailed in section 4.2.3 of the explanatory memorandum, at least for the first stage in 2005, are unlikely to be extensive, expressed on a vehicle or engine basis. The main costs are likely to be associated with the development and testing of OBD systems in various malfunction modes, which is difficult to cost, and a move by some manufacturers to higher capacity electronic control modules. Operating costs will not be affected through the implementation of OBD and are likely to be reduced through improved diagnosis and repair, although this is difficult to cost. Where necessary, it is estimated that a move to higher capacity electronic control modules will add some EUR 10 per vehicle/engine.The costs associated with the second stage of OBD foreseen for application from 2008 is more difficult to assess today.This second stage focuses on the full monitoring of exhaust aftertreatment devices and will require substantial system development. It is also most likely that the following components may be required within such an OBD system:- NOx sensors - are in production today but only for a limited NOx detection range. The detection range needs to be expanded for heavy-duty vehicle applications. Estimated to be a relatively high additional cost;- Ammonia sensors - are pre-production. Maybe ammonia sensors will not be required if NOx sensor cross-sensitivity with ammonia can be utilised to give dual-sensor capability. Estimated to be relatively high additional cost;- Urea sensor - at the laboratory stage. Cost unknown;- Differential pressure sensors for diesel particulate filter - in production today. Relatively moderate additional cost;- Particulate sensor - at the laboratory stage. Cost unknown;- CO or HC sensor - at the laboratory stage. Cost unknown but possibly not required for heavy-duty vehicle OBD (depends also on the outcome of the discussions towards a global solution for heavy-duty vehicle OBD);- Wide-band lambda sensor for exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) or NOx adsorber control - available today at relatively moderate cost;- Temperature sensor for EGR, exhaust gas or diesel particulate filter - pre-production for heavy-duty vehicle applications. Estimated to be relatively moderate cost;- Fuel injection pressure sensor, needle lift sensor, exhaust mass flow sensors - in series production. Relatively low to moderate cost.Type-approval costs are based on present practice for light-duty OBD where technical services usually take up to 5 days in witnessing OBD tests and investigating manufacturer's OBD information. Based on an hourly rate of EUR 135 for witnessing OBD testing and paperwork, the cost of the OBD type-approval test could equate to some EUR 6 500 per OBD-engine family.On a per engine basis, this total cost is very low compared to the cost of actually meeting the 2005 and 2008 emission limits.2.5. Does the proposal contain measures to take account of the specific situation of small and medium-sized firms (reduced or different requirements etc)*The proposal will contain some allowances with respect to the type-approval burden for manufacturers who make relatively small numbers of heavy-duty vehicles or heavy-duty engines. Such manufacturers whose world-wide annual production of a type of engine, belonging to an OBD engine family, is less than 500 units per annum, will be able to type-approve his product according to slightly less stringent requirements compared to manufacturers of large numbers of heavy-duty vehicles or heavy-duty engines. The environmental impact associated with the small numbers of such derogated vehicles or engines in the market will be low. 3. Consultation3.1. List the organisations that have been consulted about the proposal and outline their main views.The industrial associations ACEA (Association of European Automobile Manufacturers), JAMA (Japanese Automobile Manufacturers Association), CLEPA (Association of European Automotive Suppliers), AECC (Association for Emissions Control by Catalyst), AFCAR (Alliance for Freedom of Car Repair in the EU), CLEDIPA (Comité de Liaison Européen de la Distribution Indépendante de Pièces de Rechange et Équipements pour Automobiles), AEGPL (European Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association), ENGVA (European Natural Gas Vehicle Association) have been consulted on this proposal.These organisations welcome the split-level approach being taken in this proposal in hope that it will streamline the legislative process and provide for more lead-time for industry to comply with the adopted legislation. The Commission has listened to the views and experience of several of these organisations in drawing-up this proposal, especially with regard to the experience gained by those manufacturers of heavy-duty vehicles and heavy-duty engines in the US market. The organisations are broadly supportive of the measures the Commission has proposed.Technical experts from Belgium, Denmark, Germany, France, Italy, Netherlands, Sweden and the UK have also been consulted. These Member States have, in general, welcomed the split-level approach being taken in this proposal.