Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL concerning type-approval requirements for the deployment of the eCall in-vehicle system and amending Directive 2007/46/EC /* COM/2013/0316 final - 2013/0165 (COD) */
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
1. CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSAL
The purpose of this proposal is to
introduce in the EC motor vehicle type-approval system a requirement for
fitting an eCall in-vehicle system.

This forms part of a set of EU legal acts
for ensuring the deployment of the 112-based eCall service by 1 October 2015. The other main legislative acts linked to this eCall initiative are: · 
Commission Recommendation 2011/750/EU of 8
September 2011 on support for an EU-wide eCall service in electronic
communication networks for the transmission of in-vehicle emergency calls based
on 112 ('eCalls')[1]
· 
Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 305/2013
of 26.11.2012 supplementing Directive 2010/40/EU of the European Parliament and
of the Council with regards to the harmonised provision for an interoperable
EU-wide eCall[2]
· 
Proposal for Decision (EU) No…/.. of xx.xx.20xx of the European Parliament and of the Council on the
deployment of the interoperable EU-wide eCall[3]
These different texts are complementary and
together will allow for the 112 eCall service to be fully operational by 1
October 2015. 2. RESULTS OF CONSULTATIONS
WITH THE INTERESTED PARTIES AND IMPACT ASSESSMENTS
2.1. Consultations with the
interested parties
This proposal is the result of extensive
consultations with major stakeholders: The stakeholders, and notably the CARS21
High Level Group, were consulted during the process that led to the adoption of
the "CARS 2020: action plan for a competitive and sustainable European car
industry". More precisely, this proposal constitutes a delivery of the action: "further promote the deployment of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS),
including cooperative systems, in particular the EU-wide in-vehicle emergency
call system eCall". This proposal also takes into consideration
all the consultations made in the eCall Impact Assessment. These consultations
include, in particular, extensive contributions from stakeholders involved in
several fora such as the European eCall Implementation Platform (EeIP), the
eCall Public Service Answering Points ("PSAPs") expert Group and the eCall
Driving Group within the eSafety/i-Mobility Forum, and a public consultation on
the implementation of eCall that was open from 19 July to 19 September 2010. Finally, this proposal takes into
consideration the opinion of the European ITS Advisory Group, composed of 25
high level representatives from ITS service providers, associations of users,
transport and facilities operators, manufacturing industry, social partners,
professional associations, local authorities and other relevant fora. 2.2. Impact assessment and
cost-benefit analysis
An extensive cost-benefit analysis was
conducted as part of the eCall Impact Assessment for the three proposed
options, including the preferred option on regulatory measures. As far as the cost-benefit analysis of the
chosen option (option 3) is concerned, each of the three planned eCall
regulatory measures (in-vehicle, telecommunication, PSAP) is inseparable from
the other two. 2.2.1. Analysis of main benefits
The benefits identified through the impact
assessment and several studies, including national ones, include: - Reduction of fatalities (with all
vehicles eCall-equipped, between 1% and 10% depending on country population
density, road and emergency response infrastructure); 
- Reduction of seriousness of the
injuries (between 2% and 15%); 
- Reduction of congestion costs
caused by traffic accidents. This is due to the improvement of accident
management, as the accident is immediately notified to the PSAPs and can therefore
be transferred to the appropriate Traffic Management Control, which can
immediately inform other road users, and help reduce secondary accidents; - Facilitation of rescue services
and increased security of rescue team (e.g. fire-fighters) when extracting
trapped occupants, as the Minimum Set of Data ("MSD") in the eCall message will,
among others, provide information on the fuel type; - Reduced SOS roadside
infrastructure, as each road user would be able to trigger an emergency call
from their vehicle. 2.2.2. Cost-benefit ratio
Benefits have also been quantified in
monetary values and a cost-benefit analysis drawn for the different options as
well for types of affected categories. The estimations are calculated up to
year 2033 as this is the expected year of full penetration of the eCall service
in case of the preferred policy option. || Policy option 1 No EU action || Policy Option 2 Voluntary approach || Policy Option 3 Regulatory measures 
 Benefit-Cost Ratio || 0.29 || 0.68 || 1.74 
3. LEGAL ELEMENTS OF THE
PROPOSAL
3.1. Legal basis
The legal basis is article 114 of the
Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3.2. Subsidiarity and
proportionality
According to the principle of subsidiarity
(Article 5.3 Treaty on the European Union), action at Union level should be
taken only when the aims envisaged cannot be achieved sufficiently by Member
States alone and can therefore, by reason of the scale or effects of the
proposed action, be better achieved by the Union. Road safety is an issue of major concern
across the entire European Union and for all of its citizens. The purpose of
the interoperable EU-wide eCall initiative is ultimately to introduce in all
vehicles in the EU the minimum functionalities needed to ensure adequate
handling of the emergency calls by the emergency response services. Currently,
road journeys exceed 100 million annually across the various Member States and
they are increasing due to further consolidation of the European Union (through
the free movement of goods, persons and services). Action is needed at EU level
in order to guarantee interoperability and continuity of the service throughout
 Europe, which cannot be satisfactorily achieved by individual Member States
alone. Moreover, taking action at EU level using common European eCall standards
approved by the European Standardisation Organisations (CEN and ETSI) will
ensure the efficient provision of the emergency response service across Europe,
for example in the case of vehicles travelling abroad, and also help to avoid
market fragmentation. The EU-wide eCall has been designed in such
a way as to minimise the impact on all the stakeholders in the value chain
(automotive industry, mobile network operators, Member States - PSAPs), and to
distribute this impact fairly. 3.3. Detailed explanation of
the proposal
Articles 2, 4 and 5: The proposal requires new types of
passenger cars and light commercial vehicles to be constructed as to ensure
that in the event of a severe accident an emergency call (eCall) to the 112 is
triggered automatically. It must also be possible to trigger manually emergency
calls (eCalls) to the 112. Article 6: Due to the nature of the information being
provided by this service, rules for privacy and data protection are provided. Articles 5, 6 and 8: The Commission is empowered to adopt
delegated acts relating to: · 
Detailed technical requirements and tests for
the type-approval of the eCall in-vehicle systems, which will be based on the
standards referred to in Article 5; 
· 
privacy and data protection; · 
exemptions for special purpose vehicles and for
other justified cases. The exemptions will be limited in number. Article 12: The Regulation will apply from 1 October
2015. 4. BUDGETARY IMPLICATION 
There are no budgetary implications for the
EU budget. 5. OPTIONAL ELEMENTS 
The proposed act concerns an EEA matter and
should therefore extend to the European Economic area.
5. OPTIONAL ELEMENTS 
The proposed act concerns an EEA matter and
should therefore extend to the European Economic area.

2013/0165 (COD)
Proposal for a
REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT
AND OF THE COUNCIL
concerning type-approval requirements for
the deployment of the eCall in-vehicle system and amending Directive 2007/46/EC
(Text with EEA relevance)
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE
COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the
Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 114 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal of the
European Commission,
After transmission of the draft legislative
act to the national Parliaments,
Having regard to the opinion of the
European Economic and Social Committee[4],
Having regard to the opinion of the European Data Protection Supervisor,
Acting in accordance with the ordinary
legislative procedure,
Whereas: (1) A comprehensive Union
type-approval system for motor vehicles has been established by Directive
2007/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 September 2007 on
establishing a framework for the approval of motor vehicles and their trailers,
and of systems, components and separate technical units intended for such
vehicles (Framework Directive)[5]. (2) The technical requirements
for the type-approval of motor vehicles with regard to numerous safety and
environmental elements have been harmonised at Union level in order to ensure a
high level of road safety throughout the Union. (3) In order to further
improve road safety, the Communication "eCall: Time for Deployment"[6] proposes new measures to
accelerate the deployment of an in-vehicle emergency call service in the Union. One of the suggested measures is to make mandatory the fitting of eCall in-vehicle systems
in all new vehicles starting with M1 and N1 vehicle categories as defined in Annex
II to Directive 2007/46/EC. (4) On
3 July 2012, the European Parliament approved the Report on eCall: a new 112 service for citizens[7] urging the Commission to submit a proposal within the framework of
Directive 2007/46/EC in order to ensure the mandatory deployment of a public,
112-based eCall system by 2015. (5) The Union eCall system is
expected to reduce the number of fatalities in the Union as well as the
severity of injuries caused by road accidents. The mandatory introduction of the
eCall system would make the service available to all citizens and thus
contribute to reduce human suffering and healthcare and other costs. (6) The provision of accurate
and reliable positioning information is an essential element of the effective operation
of the eCall in-vehicle system. Therefore, it is appropriate to require its
compatibility with the services provided by satellite navigation programmes,
including the systems established under the Galileo and EGNOS programmes set
out in Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 9 July 2008 on the further implementation of the European satellite
navigation programmes (EGNOS and Galileo)[8]. (7) The mandatory equipping of
vehicles with the eCall in-vehicle system should initially apply only to new
passenger cars and light commercial vehicles (categories M1 and N1) for which
an appropriate triggering mechanism already exists. (8) The mandatory equipping of
vehicles with the eCall in-vehicle system should be without prejudice to the
right of all stakeholders such as car manufacturers and independent operators
to offer additional emergency and/or added value services, in parallel with or
building on the 112-based eCall in-vehicle system. However, these additional
services should be designed not to increase driver distraction. (9) In order to ensure open
choice for customers and fair competition, as well as encourage innovation and
boost the competitiveness of the Union's information technology industry on the
global market, the eCall in-vehicle system should be accessible free of charge
and without discrimination to all independent operators and based on an
interoperable and open-access platform for possible future in-vehicle
applications or services. (10) In order to maintain the
integrity of the type-approval system, only those eCall in-vehicle systems
which can be fully tested should be accepted for the purposes of this
Regulation. (11) Small series vehicles are
excluded under Directive 2007/46/EC from the requirements on the protection of
occupants in the case of frontal impact and side impact. Therefore, those small
series vehicles should be excluded from the obligation to comply with the eCall
requirements. (12) Special purpose vehicles
should be subject to compliance with the eCall requirements set out in this
Regulation, unless type-approval authorities consider, on a case by case basis,
that the vehicle cannot meet those requirements due to its special purpose. (13) According to the recommendations
made by the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party and contained in the
'Working document on data protection and privacy implications in eCall
initiative', adopted on 26 September 2006[9],
any processing of personal data through the eCall in-vehicle system should
comply with the personal data
protection rules provided for in Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with
regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data[10] and in Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning
the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic
communications sector (Directive on privacy and electronic communications)[11],
in particular to guarantee that vehicles equipped with
eCall in-vehicle systems, in their normal operational status related to 112
eCall, are not traceable and are not subject to any constant tracking and that
the minimum set of data sent by the in-vehicle eCall system includes the
minimum information required for the appropriate handling of emergency calls. (14) The European
Standardisation Organisations, ETSI and CEN, have developed common standards
for the deployment of a pan-European eCall service, which should apply for the
purposes of this Regulation, as this will facilitate the technological
evolution of the in-vehicle eCall service, ensure the interoperability and
continuity of the service throughout the Union, and reduce the costs of
implementation for the Union as a whole. (15) In order to ensure the
application of common technical requirements regarding the eCall in-vehicle system,
the power to adopt acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the
Functioning of the European Union should be delegated to the Commission in
respect of the detailed rules on the application of the relevant standards, on
testing, on personal data and privacy protection and on exemptions for certain
vehicles or classes of vehicles of categories M1 and N1. It is of particular
importance that the Commission carry out appropriate consultations during its
preparatory work, including at expert level. The Commission, when preparing and
drawing up delegated acts, should ensure a simultaneous, timely and appropriate
transmission of relevant documents to the European Parliament and to the
Council. (16) Vehicle manufacturers
should be allowed sufficient time to adapt to the technical requirements of
this Regulation. (17) This Regulation is a new
separate Regulation in the context of the EC type-approval procedure provided
for by Directive 2007/46/EC and therefore, Annexes I, III, IV, VI, IX and XI to
that Directive should be amended accordingly.
(17) This Regulation is a new
separate Regulation in the context of the EC type-approval procedure provided
for by Directive 2007/46/EC and therefore, Annexes I, III, IV, VI, IX and XI to
that Directive should be amended accordingly.

(18) Since the objectives of
this Regulation, namely the achievement of the internal market through the
introduction of common technical requirements for new type approved vehicles
equipped with the eCall in vehicle system, cannot be sufficiently achieved by
the Member States and can, therefore, by reason of its scale, be better
achieved at the level of the Union, the Union may adopt measures in accordance
with the principle of subsidiarity set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on the
European Union. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out
in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order
to achieve that objective,
HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1
Subject matter
This Regulation establishes the technical
requirements for the EC type-approval of vehicles regarding the eCall in-vehicle system. Article 2 
Scope
This Regulation shall apply to vehicles of
categories M1 and N1 as defined in points 1.1.1. and 1.2.1. of Annex II to Directive
2007/46/EC. Article 3
Definitions
For the purpose of this Regulation and in
addition to the definitions laid down in Article 3 of Directive 2007/46/EC and
in Article 2 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 305/2013[12], the following definitions
shall apply: (1) 'e-Call in-vehicle system' means
a system activated either automatically via in-vehicle sensors or manually,
which carries, by means of mobile wireless communications networks, a
standardised minimum set of data and establishes a 112-based audio channel
between the occupants of the vehicle and a public safety answering point; (2) 'in-vehicle system' means the
in-vehicle equipment together with the means to trigger, manage and effect the
eCall transmission via a public mobile wireless communications network
providing a link between the vehicle and a means of enacting the eCall service
via a public mobile wireless communications network. Article 4 
General obligations of the Manufacturers
Manufacturers shall demonstrate that all
new types of vehicles referred to in Article 2 are equipped with an eCall in-vehicle
system, in accordance with this Regulation and the delegated acts adopted
pursuant to this Regulation. Article 5
Specific obligations of manufacturers
1. Manufacturers shall ensure that
all their new types of vehicle are manufactured and approved in accordance with
the requirements set out in this Regulation and the delegated acts adopted
pursuant to this Regulation. 2. Manufacturers shall demonstrate
that all their new types of vehicle are constructed to ensure that in the event
of a severe accident which occurs in the territory of the Union, an eCall to
the single European emergency number 112 is triggered automatically. Manufacturers shall demonstrate
that new vehicles are constructed as to ensure that an eCall to the single
European emergency number 112 can also be triggered manually. 3. Manufacturers shall ensure that
the receivers in the in-vehicle systems are compatible with the positioning
services provided by satellite navigation systems including the Galileo and the
EGNOS systems. 4. Only those eCall in-vehicle systems
which can be tested shall be accepted for the purposes of type-approval. 5. eCall in-vehicle systems shall
comply with the requirements of Directive 1999/5/EC[13] and UNECE Regulation No 10[14]. 6. The eCall in-vehicle system shall
be accessible to all independent operators free of charge and without
discrimination at least for repair and maintenance purposes. 7. The Commission shall be empowered
to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 9 establishing the detailed
technical requirements and tests for the type-approval of eCall in-vehicle systems
and amending Directive 2007/46/EC accordingly. The technical requirements and tests referred
to in the first subparagraph shall be based on the requirements set out in
paragraphs 3, 4 and 6 and on the following standards, where applicable: (a) EN 16072 'Intelligent transport
system-ESafety-PanEuropean eCall-Operating requirements'; (b) EN 16062 'Intelligent transport
systems-ESafety-ECall high level application requirements (HLAP)';
(c) EN 16454 'Intelligent transport
systems - eSafety - eCall end to end conformance testing', as regards the eCall
in-vehicle system conformance to the pan-European eCall; (d) any additional European standards or
UNECE Regulations relating to eCall systems. Article 6
Rules on privacy and data protection
1 In accordance with Directive
95/46/EC and Directive 2002/58/EC, manufacturers shall ensure that vehicles
equipped with eCall in-vehicle system are not traceable and are not subject to
any constant tracking in their normal operational status related to the eCall. Privacy enhancing technologies shall be
embedded in the in-vehicle eCall system in order to provide eCall users with
the desired level of privacy protection, as well as the necessary safeguards to
prevent surveillance and misuse. 2. The minimum set of data sent by
the eCall in-vehicle system shall include only the minimum information required
for the appropriate handling of emergency calls. 3. Manufacturers shall ensure that
eCall users are provided with clear and comprehensive information about the
processing of data carried out through the eCall in-vehicle system, in
particular about: (a) the reference to the legal basis for
the processing; (b) the fact that the eCall in-vehicle system
is activated by default; (c) the modalities of data processing that
the eCall in-vehicle system performs; (d) the purpose of the eCall processing; (e) the types of data collected and
processed and the recipients of that data, 
(f) the time limit for the retention of
data in the in-vehicle system; (g) the fact that there is no constant
tracking of the vehicle; (h) the modalities for exercising data
subjects' rights; (i) any necessary additional information
regarding the processing of personal data in relation to the provision of a
private eCall service and/or other added value services. 4. The Commission shall be empowered
to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 9 which shall define further the requirement of the absence
of traceability and tracking and the privacy enhancing technologies
referred to in paragraph 1 as well as the modalities of the private data processing and of the user
information referred to in paragraph 3. Article 7
Obligations of the Member States 
With effect from 1 October 2015, national
authorities shall only grant EC type-approval in respect of the eCall in-vehicle
system to new types of vehicles which comply with this Regulation and the
delegated acts adopted pursuant to this Regulation. Article 8
Exemptions
1. The Commission may exempt
certain vehicles or classes of vehicles of categories M1 and N1 from the
obligation to install eCall in-vehicle systems set out in Article 4, if following
a cost/benefit analysis, carried out or mandated by the Commission, and taking
into account all relevant safety aspects, the application of those systems
proves not to be appropriate to the vehicle or class of vehicles concerned. 2. The Commission shall be
empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 9 setting out the exemptions
referred to in paragraph 1. Those exemptions shall cover vehicles such as
special purpose vehicles and vehicles without airbags and be limited in number. Article 9
Exercise of the delegation
1. The power to adopt
delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid
down in this Article. 2. The power to adopt
delegated acts referred to in Article 5 (7), Article 6(4) and in Article 8(2)
shall be conferred on the Commission for an indeterminate period of time
from […][Publications Office, please insert the exact date of entry into force].
2. The power to adopt
delegated acts referred to in Article 5 (7), Article 6(4) and in Article 8(2)
shall be conferred on the Commission for an indeterminate period of time
from […][Publications Office, please insert the exact date of entry into force].

3. The delegation of powers
referred to in Article 5(7), in Article 6(4) and in Article 8(2) may be revoked
at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke
shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It
shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official
Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force. 4. As soon as it adopts a
delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to
the European Parliament and to the Council. 5. A delegated act adopted
pursuant to Article 5(7), Article 6(4) and Article 8(2), shall enter into force
only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or
the Council within a period of two months of notification of that act to
the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that
period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed
the Commission that they will not object. That period shall be
extended by two months at the initiative of the European Parliament
or of the Council. Article 10
Penalties for non-compliance
1. Member States shall lay down the
rules on penalties applicable to non-compliance by manufacturers with the
provisions of this Regulation and shall take all measures to ensure that they
are implemented. The penalties provided for shall be effective, proportionate
and dissuasive. Members States shall notify those provisions to the Commission,
and shall notify it without delay of any subsequent amendment affecting them. 2. The type of non-compliance which
is subject to a penalty shall include at least the following: (a) making a false declaration during an
approval procedure or a procedure leading to a recall; (b) falsifying test results for
type-approval; (c) withholding data or technical
specifications which could lead to recall or withdrawal of type-approval. Article 11
Amendments to Directive 2007/46/EC
Annexes I, III, IV, VI, IX and XI to
Directive 2007/46/EC are amended in accordance with the Annex to this
Regulation. Article 12
Entry into force
This Regulation shall enter into force on
the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal
of the European Union. It shall apply from 1 October 2015. This
Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all
Member States. Done at Brussels, 
For the European Parliament For
the Council
The President The
President
ANNEX
Amendments to Directive 2007/46/EC
Directive 2007/46/EC is amended as follows: (1) In Annex I, the following points
12.8. and 12.8.1. are added: "12.8 eCall system
12.8.1 description or drawings"; (2) In Annex III, In Part I, section
A, the following points 12.8. and 12.8.1. are added: "12.8 eCall system
12.8.1 Presence: yes/no (1)"; (3) Part 1 of Annex IV is amended as
follows: (a) The following item 71. is added to
the table: 
 Item || Subject || Regulatory act || Applicability 
 M1 || M2 || M3 || N1 || N2 || N3 || O1 || O2 || O3 || O4 
 71. || eCall system || Regulation (EU) No….. || X || || || X || || || || || || 
(b) Appendix 1 is amended as follows: (i) the following item 71. is added to
table 1: Item || Subject || Regulatory act || Specific issues || Applicability and specific requirements 
 71. || eCall system || Regulation (EU) No….. || || N/A 
(ii) the following item 71. is added to
table 2: Item || Subject || Regulatory act || Specific issues || Applicability and specific requirements 
 71. || eCall system || Regulation (EU) No….. || || N/A 
(4) In the Appendix to Model A in Annex
VI, the following item 71. is added to the table: Item || Subject || Regulatory act reference(1) || As amended by || Applicable to versions 
 71. || eCall system || Regulation (EU) No….. || || 
(5) Annex IX is amended as follows: (a) In Part I, Model B is amended as
follows: (i) Side 2 "vehicle category M1" is
amended as follows: - point 52 is replaced by the following: "52. eCall presence yes/no",
- the following point 53 is added: "53. Remarks (11): …………….";
(ii) side 2 "vehicle category N1" is
amended as follows: - point 52 is replaced by the following: "52. eCall presence yes/no",
- the following point 53 is added: "53. Remarks (11): …………….";
(b) in Part II, model C2 is amended as
follows: (i) side 2 "vehicle category M1" is
amended as follows: - point 52 is replaced by the following: "52. eCall presence yes/no",
- the following point 53 is added: "53. Remarks (11): …………….";
(ii) side 2 "vehicle category N1" is
amended as follows: - point 52 is replaced by the following: "52. eCall presence yes/no",
- the following point 53 is added: "53. Remarks (11): …………….";
(6) In Appendix 1 to Annex XI, the
following item 71. is added to the table: Item || Subject || Regulatory act reference || M1 ≤ 2 500 (1) kg || M1 > 2 500 (1) kg || M2 || M3 
 71. || eCall system || Regulation (EU) No….. || A || A || N/A || N/A 
[1] OJ L303, 22.11.2011, p.46. [2] OJ L91, 3.4.2013,p.1
[3] OJ L[…],[…], p. […]. [4] OJ C […], […], p. […]. [5] OJ L 263, 9.10.2007, p.1. [6] COM (2009) 434 final. [7] 2012/2056(INI). [8] OJ L 196, 24.7.2008, p.1. [9] 1609/06/EN - WP 125. [10] OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. [11] OJ L 201, 31.7.2002, p. 37. [12] OJ L 91, 03.04.2013, p. 1. [13] OJ L 91, 7.4.1999, p.10. [14] OJ L 254, 20.9.2012, p.1.