Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION establishing the position to be adopted on the Union's behalf in the Administrative Committee of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe on the draft new Regulation on pole side impact and on the draft amendment to the new Regulation on pole side impact /* COM/2014/0680 final - 2014/0314 (NLE) */
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
1. CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSAL
· 
Grounds for and objectives of the proposal
At international level, the United Nations
Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) develops harmonised requirements, intended
to remove technical barriers to the trade in motor vehicles and systems used
for such motor vehicles between the Contracting Parties to the 'Revised 1958
Agreement'[1]
and to ensure that such vehicles and systems offer a high level of safety and environmental
protection.

The UNECE recently finalised a draft new Regulation
on uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to their
Pole Side Impact performance[2]
and draft amendment to this draft new Regulation[3]. The objective of the draft Regulation, as well as the proposed amendment
thereto, is to establish a high level of safety for the occupants of vehicles
involved in a side crash with a tall rigid object such as a tree or lantern
post. The immediate introduction of the amendment
to the draft new regulation will provide Contracting Parties with the option to
either apply the new Regulation in the original series in a first step, or to
immediately apply the amended series. The original series will incorporate an
exemption with reduced test severity for very narrow cars. The amended series
abolishes the exemption for Contracting Parties that have no intrinsic need to
apply it in a first step. The established provisions of Global
Technical Regulation No 14 on Pole Side Impact, as adopted through the Council
Decision 14675/13[4],
are effectively transposed into the draft new UNECE Regulation and the draft
amendment to the draft new UNECE Regulation. The present proposal aims at defining the
Union's position in the voting of the draft UNECE regulation on Pole Side
Impact, as well as the draft amendment thereto, submitted for vote in the
November 2014 WP29 meeting that will take place on 11 to 14 November 2014. · 
General context
Regulation (EC) No 661/2009 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 concerning type-approval
requirements for the general safety of motor vehicles, their trailers and systems,
components and separate technical units intended therefor[5] lays down basic requirements for the type-approval of motor vehicles with respect to
Side Impact Protection through direct reference to UNECE Regulation No 95 -
Uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the
protection of the occupants in the event of a lateral collision[6]. It is however
recognised that the aspect of Pole Side Impact is not covered by EU
legislation. However, it is still envisaged for the
Union to vote in favour of the related draft new UNECE Regulation on Pole Side
Impact, as well as the draft amendment thereto, in order to promote common
harmonised requirements at international level which will facilitate
international trade. This will enable European vehicle manufacturer and
supplier industry to follow one set of requirements recognised worldwide, i.e.
in the respective territories of the Contracting Parties to the 'Revised 1958
Agreement' that will implement provisions for Pole Side Impact. · 
Existing provisions in the area of the
proposal
There are no existing provisions in the
area of the proposal
· 
Consistency with the other policies and
objectives of the Union
If implemented on EU level, the proposal would
be in line with the objectives of Directive 2007/46/EC on the approval of motor
vehicles and their trailers, and of systems, components and separate technical
units intended for such vehicles. On this basis, the proposal would be consistent
with the EU objective to provide for a high level of road safety concerning
motor vehicles. 2. RESULTS OF CONSULTATIONS
WITH THE INTERESTED PARTIES AND IMPACT ASSESSMENTS
 · Consultation of interested parties 
 In developing the proposal the European Commission has consulted stakeholders. There has been general consultation through the UNECE informal working group on Pole Side Impact under the Working Party on Passive Safety (GRSP) as well as dissemination of information and subsequent discussions in the Technical Committee - Motor Vehicles during the ongoing development of the Global Technical Regulation on Pole Side Impact and the subsequent draft new UNECE Regulation, and the draft amendment thereto, based on the Global Technical Regulation. · Impact assessment As there are no existing provisions in the area of the proposal that are relevant at this point in time, an impact assessement shall be carried out if the proposed measures are to be implemented on EU level on an obligatory basis. 3. LEGAL ELEMENTS OF THE
PROPOSAL
· 
Summary of the proposed action
The proposal defines the Union's position
in the voting of the draft new UNECE Regulation concerning the approval of
vehicles with regard to their Pole Side Impact performance, as well as the
draft amendment to that draft new UNECE Regulation. · 
Legal basis
The legal basis for this proposal is
Article 114, in conjunction with Article 218(9) of the Treaty on the
Functioning of the European Union. · 
Subsidiarity principle
General requirements for motor vehicle
safety are already harmonised at Union level. The new provisions may be
introduced in addition to the existing rules in the future, as decided by the European
Parliament and the Council. The vote in favour of international instruments
like draft UNECE Regulations and their possible incorporation into the Union
system for the type-approval of systems used in motor vehicles can only be done
by the Union. This does not only prevent fragmentation of the Internal Market,
but also ensures an equal level of safety standards across the Union. It also
offers advantages of economies of scale: products can be made for the entire
Union market and even the international market, instead of being customised to
obtain national type-approval for every single Member State. The proposal therefore complies with the
subsidiarity principle. · 
Proportionality principle
The proposal complies with the
proportionality principle as it does not go beyond what is necessary in order
to achieve the objectives of ensuring the proper functioning of the Internal
Market while at the same time enabling a high level of public safety and
protection. · 
Choice of instruments
The use of a Council Decision is required
by Article 218(9) TFEU in order to establish the positions to be adopted on the
Union's behalf in a body set up by an international agreement. 4. BUDGETARY IMPLICATION
The proposal has no implication for the
Union budget. 2014/0314 (NLE)
Proposal for a
COUNCIL DECISION
establishing the position to be adopted on
the Union's behalf in the Administrative Committee of the United Nations
Economic Commission for Europe on the draft new Regulation on pole side impact
and on the draft amendment to the new Regulation on pole side impact
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION,
Having regard to the Treaty on the
Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 114, in
conjunction with Article 218(9) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the
European Commission,
Whereas: (1) By Council Decision
97/836/EC[7],
the Union has acceded to the Agreement of the United Nations Economic
Commission for Europe (UNECE) concerning the adoption of uniform technical
prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to
and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal
recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions ('Revised
1958 Agreement').
(1) By Council Decision
97/836/EC[7],
the Union has acceded to the Agreement of the United Nations Economic
Commission for Europe (UNECE) concerning the adoption of uniform technical
prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to
and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal
recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions ('Revised
1958 Agreement').

(2) The standardised
requirements of the draft new UNECE Regulation on uniform provisions concerning
the approval of vehicles with regard to their Pole Side Impact performance[8], as well as the draft
amendment to the draft new UNECE Regulation on uniform provisions concerning
the approval of vehicles with regard to their Pole Side Impact performance[9] are intended to remove
technical barriers to the trade in motor vehicles and their components between
the Contracting Parties to the 'Revised 1958 Agreement' and to ensure that such
vehicles and components offer a high level of safety and protection. (3) It is appropriate to establish
the position to be taken on the Union's behalf in the Administrative Committee
of the Revised 1958 Agreement concerning the adoption of that draft UNECE Regulation,
HAS ADOPTED THIS DECISION: 
Sole Article
The position to be adopted on the Union's
behalf in the Administrative Committee of the Revised 1958 Agreement shall be to
vote in favour of the draft new UNECE Regulation on uniform provisions concerning
the approval of vehicles with regard to their Pole Side Impact performance, as
contained in document ECE TRANS/ WP.29/2014/79, as well as the draft amendment
to the draft new UNECE Regulation on uniform provisions concerning the approval
of vehicles with regard to their Pole Side Impact performance, as contained in
document ECE TRANS/ WP.29/2014/80. Done at Brussels,
 For
the Council
 The
President
[1] Council Decision of 27
November 1997 with a view to accession by the European Community to the
Agreement of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe concerning the
adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and
parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the
conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of
these prescriptions ('Revised 1958 Agreement') (OJ L 346, 17.12.1997, p. 78). [2] UNECE Document ECE TRANS/WP.29/2014/79
[3] UNECE Document ECE TRANS/WP.29/2014/80
[4] Council Decision 14675/13 of 11
October 2013 on the position to be adopted on behalf of the European Union
within the relevant Committees of the United Nations Economic Commission for
Europe regarding the adaptation to technical progress of Regulation Nos 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 10, 12, 14, 16, 17, 19, 23, 31, 37, 38, 43, 48, 49, 50, 51, 54, 67,
69, 70, 77, 83, 87, 91, 94, 95, 98, 99, 100, 101, 103, 107, 110, 112, 113, 115,
117, 119, 121, 123, 128 and 129, regarding a proposal for amendments to the
Consolidated Resolution on the Construction of Vehicles (R.E.3), regarding the
adoption of a proposal for a Global Technical Regulation on Pole Side Impact and
regarding the adoption of a proposal for a Global Technical Regulation on Tyres. [5] OJ L 200, 31.7.2009, p. 1. [6] OJ L 313, 30.11.2007, p. 1
[7] Council Decision of 27
November 1997 with a view to accession by the European Community to the
Agreement of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe concerning the
adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and
parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the
conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these
prescriptions ('Revised 1958 Agreement') (OJ L 346, 17.12.1997, p. 78). [8] UNECE Document ECE TRANS/WP.29/2014/79
[9] UNECE Document ECE TRANS/WP.29/2014/80