WRITTEN QUESTION E-1693/00 by Jonas Sjöstedt (GUE/NGL) to the Commission. Rules governing tyres under whole vehicle type approval. WRITTEN QUESTION E-1693/00by Jonas Sjöstedt (GUE/NGL) to the Commission(29 May 2000)Subject: Rules governing tyres under whole vehicle type approvalNumerous questions have been raised in Sweden concerning tyres in connection with whole vehicle type approval, such as whether remoulded tyres are a repaired original part and therefore authorised under whole vehicle type approval. A more important question, however, is whether the narrow winter tyres granted an exemption for use in Sweden are authorised under whole vehicle type approval. The Swedish National Road Administration considers them to be safer and more effective in the Swedish climate but is this view consistent with whole vehicle type approval? What happens if Swedes take their cars with narrow winter tyres to Germany? Are they then breaking the law?Answer given by Mr Liikanen on behalf of the Commission(23 June 2000)A remoulded tyre is a tyre which has been reconditioned by repairing a worn tyre, replacing the used tread with new material.In the Community, rules in this area are, for the present, based solely on national provisions. However, it is planned in the short term that Regulations 108 and 109 of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, which lay down the rules for approval of this type of tyre, will be made compulsory.It will therefore be possible in Europe to obtain type-approval for remoulded tyres, the use of which will also be specified in order to make the distinction, according to vehicle type, between first and second fitting. It is the first fitting that is affected by vehicle type-approval.Winter tyres, more commonly referred to as snow tyres, are tyres whose tread and structure are primarily designed to ensure better performance than an ordinary tyre (for road use) in mud and in fresh or melting snow. They are type-approved in Europe in accordance with Council Directive 92/23/EEC of 31 March 1992 relating to tyres for motor vehicles and their trailers and to their fitting(1) or Regulations 30 and 54 of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, and they must bear the letters M + S or M. S. or M and S.At present there are rules governing the use of winter tyres, generally for a period determined by each Member State. Member States may grant certain derogations, as is the case in Sweden.When a resident of a Member State goes to another Member State, either passing through or on holiday, the Vienna Convention allows initial derogations to be retained in line with the free movement of vehicles. However, for longer periods of time it is necessary to comply with the national provisions in force.(1) OJ L 129, 14.5.1992.